      "identifier" : [
         "8_05087_545"
      ],
      "text" : [
         "CAN ENT- VOL XLVIiEXI z 6 -q 4 PSEPHENUS LECONTEI AND STENELVIS BICARINATUS. 1 AIF XII.",
         "e4 uadtîaq ~tmI~t VOL. XLVI. LONDON, JUNE, 1914 No. 6 LIFE-HISTORY NOTES ON TWO COLEOPTERA (PARNIDA). BY ROBERT MfATIES0N, ITHACA, N. Y.* Psephenus lecontel Lec. Although many notes, brief references, and figures \u003c\u003ef the larva (fig. 3), water penny, of this beetie have appeared frori time to timte in American literature, no consecutive account of its life-history bas as yet been published. As this extremely interest- ing species is found very widely distributed in America and is of considerable interest on account of its peculiar larval forni it seems to, me that a short account, though gathered from desultory obser- vations extending over the past two years, would not be out of place at this time. Ordinarily the beetles are not usually ohserved by the col- lector though practically everyone who has any interest in ento- mology has seen the peculiar larvoe on the under side of atones, etc.. in any of our rapid streams. In some streams they are verv abundant and usually so in the swifter-flowing portions, particularly where the stones break the surface of the %vater into ripples. Here also the beeties are found, often in considerable numbers, but not in the water. H. G. Hubbard, in the American Entomologist for 1880 (p. 73), welI described the habits of the aduits. Both maies and females may ustially be found, particularly during the heat of the day, gathered upon atones in mid-stream which joat break the surface of the water. They are very active, flying about, and chasing one another over the stones. I have neyer seen them plunge loto the water nor suifer themselves to get wet. They are usually very easily frightened and one has to approach cautiousiy with a net in order to catch them; for they take sudden flight and one cao scarcely follow their movements. However, if one will look around carefully thcy wiII usually he found only a few feet away actively playing on another tone. *Co.trihutiori from the Entornological L.abora7ory o Corneli University. X q",
         "186 THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST 1 have observed the aduits performing in this manner in Fall Creek and Coy Glen here at Ithaca and in the Salmon River at Truro, N. S. Guided by the activities of thse aduits 1 was flot long in finding the eggs. They are laid in masses on the under side of stones, usually in thse swiftest water. 1 have found these egg masses in shallow streams and also, in rivers where the water was several feet deep, the current often so swif t as to render footing dificuit. The females when engaged in egg laying are very sluggish and neyer attempt to escape. One may easily observe the egg-laying process if he is careful to remnove the stone on which the eggs are being deposited. Egg Iaying was common at Ithaca on june 25, 1911, at Truro, N. S. on juIy 14, 1913. The eggs are deposited in a single, irregular layer. They are placed closely beside one another, often forming a layer of con- siderable extent (Fig. 2).' At first the eggs are bright orange in colour, soon turning lemon yellow. They are firmly held together and to the stone by a tough, hyaline substance. In examining an egg mass removed from a stone, each egg is seen to be placed in the centre of a gelatinous envelope,. hexagonal in outline. A layer of lemnon-yellow eggs, each egg placed in the centre of its gelatinous envelope, presents a radier beautiful appearance, (fig. 1). The eggs are practically spherical in shape, measuring .18 mm. to .2 mm. in. dianieter. Some eggs may be a little larger, others smaller, but the above measurements represent thse average size. The eggs are perfectly smooth without markings of any kind. 1 was flot able to rear the larvae froni the eggs nor study in detail their natural history. It would undoubtably be of consider- able interest for any one to study the form of the larva at hatch- ing and what changes it undergoes during its larval existance. No one 1 believe has examined the stornach contents and nowhere have 1 found mention of its feeding habits. 1 did flot determine the tume between egg laying and the hatching of the larva. Judging froni observations, the lite-cycle lasts -slightdy legs than a year,--egg-laying taking place during the latter part of june and July, the larvae reaching maturity the following season. In the references to this species in literature 1 have found but one note on the pupa. Hubbard in the American Entomol- ogist for 1880, p. 73, speaks of thse larva leaving the water and",
         "THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST. 187 ;pupating under the larval skin bereath stofles, boards, etc., in (lamp situations. He did flot mention when they could be found. Last summer (Aug. 6, 1913) while collecting along. the bank of Salmon River 1 was attracted by the large number of empty larval skins of this species. Though 1 had noticed such skins prcv- iousty 1 had always discovered themn empty. In searching over a large number I was fortonate to, find two popoe flot yet transform- ed. Nearly a month previously the adoîts had been observed egg-laying, so evidently the time of pupation extends over a considerable period. How long the popal period lasts 1 did flot determine. The pupoe are found on the under side of stones, boards, etc., in damp situations. 1 found the larval skins very abundant under r loose rocks overhanging the Salmon River. These sedimentary rocks are soft and many cracks extend in ail directions, retaining a considerable amount of moisture. The last larval skin is flrmly attached to the rock. Under this skin the pupa is formed. The larval skin on the ventral side splits transversely just in front of the mouth parts and is forced back to, the tip of the abdomen wbere it remains (fig 4). The pupa is pure white in colour and very tender. Lit is held in1 place under the larval skin by the un- shed anterior ventral portion and the shed skin at the caudal end. In this way the pupa is prevented front coming directly in contact with the hard underlying rock, etc. Ait hough there are several extended descriptions of the larva aind larval structures 1 have found scarcely a word regarding the popa. The pupa is pure white in colour, measuring 4.5-5mm. long. The anterior end is firmly held in place by the remaining portion of the larval skin, while the end of the abdomen remains beneath 4.. the cast larval skin. However, if one carefully lifts the pupal head, then loosens the abdomen he will be surprised to, find the pupa still firmly held in place. Carefully pushing the pupa it soon breaks away and discloses a process on each side extending from the latero-dorsal angles of the flrst abdominal segment. These processes are flrmly attached to, the lateral walls of the envelop. ' ing larval skin. A dorsal view of the pupa showing these peculiar processes is shown in fig 5. The pupa is perfectly smooth without any spines or setoe. There are eight abdominal segments on the",
         "188 THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST. dorsal side. The seven paLirs of spiracles are prominent, all exct pIt the third pair being blackc at the tip. The cyes are prominentî and somewhat blackish. The legs and wing-pads arc held in position as shown in fig 4 (ventral view of the pupa in position in the larval skin). Stenelmîs bîcarinatus Lec. This species is quite common in Salmon River and 1 was not surprised to find the Iarvae and pupie under stones alongz the hank,. lJnfortunately, however, it was rather difficult to determine the larva or pupa of this species as quite a number of other speries if Coleoptera were not uncominon in similar situations. However, 1 found a considerable number of larvoe transforming and main~ pupie, one of which 1 reared so that 1 was able to definitely cui- nect aIl the different stages. The larvie leave the water about thet last of July or the first 'of August and construct small, smooti), pupal chambers in damp situations under stones. I found matit pupae and a number of larvie in such situations about August 7, 1913. The beetie reared from one of these pupae cmerged ont Aug. 10th. Further than this I know nothing of the life-cycle of tlh species, but this note may throw a little light on this smail family of interesting forma. The larve (fig. 6). The mature larva, ready to, pupate, measures 6i.25 mm. long, and 1 mm. wide at its broadest part. 1It is heavily chitinized, reddish brown in colour, the head and terni- inal segment of the abdomen being almost black. The head is small and the m, .th parts ver inconspicuot. The antennie are three-jointed, yellowîsh brown in colour, Ist segment measures .05mm., 2nd .09 mm.; the third, consisting of two very small segments lying side by side, .027 mm. The larva consists of 12 segments exclusive of the head. The last abdominal segment is longer than the two preceding segments, and ends in two sharp, short apines with two rounded lobes between (fig. 6). The entire cuticle is densely covered with small, dark elevations, each bearing a very minute spine. Otherwisc, timere are no distinctive markings. The legs are short, weIl devel- oped and suited for clinging closely to atones or other objects ini swiftly flowing streamr. The pupe (fig. 7). The pupa is soft, white in colour, the IIIIIIII",
         "î4' THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST, 189 thoracic segments, Wing-padS and legs bcing slightly dark in Colour. This darkness deepens with the age of the pupa. Length 3.4mm.;. width at base of wing pads, 1.2 mm. The head lies incurve\u003cl under the prothorax, the developing mouth-parts showing very distinctlv. The eyes are small and almost black. The antenni' lie in front of the eyes and extend under the pronotum, thus being concealed from the dorsal view. The wîng-pads are prominent. The pronotuni is large and radier densely covered with fine colourless setac. The outer angles of the anterior margin each bear a long, curving spine, measuring .32 mm. The posterior outer angles also, each hear a spine measuring .28 mm. These spines are yellowish brown in colour. They support the pupa in its chamber, preventing it from coming in contact with the coarse grains of sand. The abdomen is composed of nine segments, the posterior margins on the dorsal side being strongly elevated into narrow ridges. These ridges are clothed with numerous short set-e. The ninth segment bears on its dorsal side two curving stout cerci, Y measuring .4 mm. in length. These cerci almost completely conceal the segment from wl'irh they arise. The pupa rests on its hack in the pupal chamber. By the aid of the prothoracic spines and cerci together with the numerous short setoe arising from the raised ridges of the abdomen, injury from the roughened walls of the pupal chamber is avoided. The posterior margins of the wing pads and the legs are also provided with many short setoe. THE KNOWN NYMPHS 0F THE CANADIAN SPECIES 0F LESTES (ODONATA). 11V r. M. WALKER, TORONTO. The only attempt that has yet beesi made to separate the nymphs of the North American species of Lestes is that of Pro- fessor J. G. Needham in bis report on \"Aqtuatic Insects in New York State.\"* Professor Needham gives an excellent generic descrip- tion of the nymph and a table for the partial separation of the five- species that he reared, viz.. L. ancetas, unguiculatus, rectangularis, D forcpa usand aru.ss Cod fgurs are given of L. rectanglaris. B1uiI. M8, N.Y. State NMusurn, M9. pp. 2-:6 unel, 1914",
         "190 . THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST In 1908t the same author described the nymph of another species, L. vigilax. To these six species 1 can add two others, L. congener and L. disjunclus, both of which 1 obtained on Vancouver Island during the summer of 1913. These are ail the species of Lestes known f rom Canada and the Northern Un'ited States, except L. inoequalis, although L. eurinus bas flot !Jeen certainiy reported from the Dominion. 0f the nymphs of this genus reared by him, Professor Need- hamn says: \"I find theni well-nigh indistinguishable specificaily. Aside from siight and inconstant differences in size and a few very minor structurai characters, they are ail alike.\" Certainiy they are a difficuit group and can oniy be studied satisfactoriiy with an abundance of materiai. Nevertiieless, 1 believe that most, if flot ail, of the species can be distinguished, provided both sexes arc present, though 1 must admit that it is very douhtfui whether single individuais, especiaily maies, can be recognized with cer- tainty in ail cases. ln regard to, L. forci patus and L. unguiculagus, 1 can say very littie, as 1 have seen no good specimens of either. These species have therefore been omitted from the key that 1 give below, though 1 have discussed them as far as the materiai before me permits in the notes that foliow. The key is based upon an examination of specimens kindiy lent me by Professor Needham, as well as materiai coilected by Mr. R. P. Wodehouse, of Toronto, and myseif. Key to the Known Nymphs of Canadian Species of Lestes. A. Laterai spines presen t on abdominal segments 4- or 5-9; labium, when closely applied to the ventral surface, reach- ing to or beyond bases of hind coxie. B. Mentuni of labium relatively atout in its proximal haîf, its narrowest part being about one-third of the api- cal breadth; lateral setie 4 or 5........... congeter. BB. Mentum of labium very siender in its proximal haif, its narrowest part being flot more than one-fifth of the apical breadth; lateral setie normally 3. IBull. 124, N.Y. State Museirn, HU0, p. 197.",
         "THE CANADIAN ENT0MOLOGîîST 191 C. Lateral spines on segments 4.9; mentumi of labium 5.5-5.75 min, long, barely reaching base of hind coxoe*; mental setie 7 or 8, hind femora 6 MM.; outer wVing-pad 6.5 mm...eurinus. CC. Lateral spincs on segments 5-9 (4-9 in one speci- men of disjunclus), mental setoe usually 5-6, but often 7; hind femora less than 6 MM. long; outer wing-pad 5.5 mm. long or less.r D. Mentum of labium more than 4 mm. long, reaching generally to apex of hind cox2e or be)'ond; ovipositor extending beyond apical margin of segment 10. E. Mentum of labium 4.3-5.1 mm. long, reaching apex of hind coxoe or *b slightly beyond; ovipositor 3-3.5 MM., extending beyond basal joint gilîs .................uncalus. EE. Mentum of labium 4.75-5.5 mm., . reaching beyond apex of hind coxae,. often to apex of trochanters, ovi- positor 2 mm. long, extending very little beyond apical margin of seg- . ment 10............. disjunctus. DD. Mentum of labium 3.7-4 mm. long, reach- ing generally to about the middle of the hind coxie; ovipositor just reaching api- cal margin of segment 10.. . rectangularis. AA. Lateral spines present on abdominal segments 2- or 3-9; labium reaching barely to bases of hind coxae or not so far.....................................igilx. Lestes congener Hagen. Both sexes of this species were reared at the Dominion Biolo- gical Station at Departure Bay, near Nanaimo, Vancouver Island. The nymphe were obtained from Lonely Lake, a large pond a few miles from the Station in the depths of a rocky, coniferous forest. Two species of Lestes curred near here, L. disjunctus and L. con- àTnia cnaracter is doubticu somnewhat variable as in other species. J",
         "192 THE* CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST. gener, but the latter commeiiced to transform, when the pe'riod fi emcrgcnce of the former was almost over. The nymphs wcre' taken on July 31, 1913, and emierged August 7th, 8th and l3th. Nymp/.-La)ium, when dlosely applied to v'entral surfi\u003c« extending caudad to a littie beyond the base, or to the middle,..f the hind coxS: mentumn narrowest about the middle, the breadtih here bcing about onc-thjrd of thc apical brcadth, widening vcry slightlv proxiniad; lateral lôbe with inner margin crenulate, the teeth being much less developed than in \u003cther species of tlu( genus; the row of teeth hetween the two hooks of the outer part also less develooed than in the other species; 4 or 5 lateral setit, there being 3 or 4 on the movable hook and one before its base. Lateral spines present on srgments 5-9, those on .5 minute bt distinct; spînules on laterqi carinir of seg. 9 varying from 9 to 14. Ovipositor extending very slightly beyond the hind margin of seg. 10, the styli just reaching the margin. Giuls but littie tapering distally, being littie or no n-irrower at the distal than at tile proximal third, apices convexo-acute. The three dark bands are usually distinct but flot sharply defined. The femora have au obscure preapical dark ring. Leogth of body (without gis) 14.75 (contracted in alcohol) -20 mm.; labium(hinge to apex) 3.25-3.5 mm.; outer wing-pad 4.3-5 mm.; hind femur 4.7-5 mm.; gi 8.25-9.5 mm. Described from four nymphs and three exuvioe. Lestes eurlnue Say. 0f this species i have onlv one maie exuvia, with the imago and tmounted labium from, another specimen, both received froin Professor Needham. The labium is flot very long for the size of the iosect as it extends back only to the base of the hind coxae. Mentum vern siender in the middle, being only about one-seventh of the greatest breadth; broadening towards the hinge to about twice this breadth. The mental setae of the mounted specimen are 7 on each side, ini the other they are 7 on one side and 8 on the other. There is nothing characteristic about the laterai lobes except that the outer part is rather broad and the teeth between the two hooks are more irregular than in most species. __",
         "CAN ENT., VOL XLVI. PLATE XIII. ~A NYMPHS OF LESTES.",
         "194 THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST. Lateral spincs on abdominal segments 4-9, smnall but distinct on 4, increasing to 7, srnaller again on 9. Gis tapering but litie distally, the Width at the distal third little less than at the proxiý irai third, apices broadly convexo-acute. 1-ength of body (IAithout gis) 25 mm.; labium 5.5 mm.; outer wving-pad 6.5 mm.; hind femur 6.0 mm.; guli il mm. Lestes unglculatus Hagen. Ail that 1 have to represent the nymph of this species is the slidc rcceived from Professor Needham, on which the mouth-parts are mounted. The labium is of about the minimum size for L. anc tus, measuring barely over 4 mm. in length from hinge to apical margin of mentum. The mentumn is of the sanie form and bears 7 mientai set.r on the right side andi 5 on the left, though there is a space on the left side that appears to have borne two others. The laterai lobes havec apparcntly no special characteristics but their e xact formi cannot be determined as they do not lie flatly on the slide. Althougli nothing is known of the ovipositor of the nympb of this species, it is safc tr infer that it is of about the sanie size as in disjunctus or rectangularis, as this relation obtains in the adults of these species. Lestes uncatus Hagen. On june 26, 1913, 1 found the adults of this species in enor- mous numbers about a prairie pond or \"slough\" at Prince Albert, Saskatchewan. The exuviie werc aiso numerous here and one nymnph was taken when about to transform. 1 also bave a con- sidierable number of full-grown nymphs taken by Mr. R. 1. Wodehouse froin a pond on Fitzwiiliam Island, Georgian Ba%, Ont., june 29th, 1912, where they were taken in company wiirh nymphs of L. rectangalaris. In addition to these 1 have a slud, from Professor Needham, on which the mouth-parts are mountei It is a somewhat larger and siightly stouter nymph than that of L. rectangularis and the labium is noticeabiy larger. Tht females are easily recognized by the very large ovipositor, a char- acter that is also present in the aduits. This feature is probably shared by L. for;ipatus (q.v.).",
         "T111E CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST19 NYMPh.-Labium long and slender, e'ctending USUally slightly bcyond the apices of the hind coxa- but somctimes flot quite reaching the apices, in other case,, exten'ling as far back as the middle of the hind trochanters. Siender proximal part of mentum about two-thirds of its entire length, the middle breadth being about one-seventh of the breadtb at base of latcral lobes, wideningî proximad to more than twice this breadth at the hinge; mental setie usually' 6 or 7, rarely à or 8 on onc side; inner part of lateral lobes with the marginal tceth prominent, the outer part broad with the row of teeth straight and more regular than ustial; lateral set4e normally 3, rarely a fourth on the movahie hook. Lateral spines present on abdominal segments 5- or 6-9, those on 5, when present, ver': minute. Spinules on lateral carinw of 9 v'arying fromt 10 to Il. Ov'ipositor boucli larger than in any other species cxamined, the tips of the styli reaching the level of the basal joint of the guis, the apices of the ovipositor slightly beyonol the joint. The sidcs of the valves are perpendicular, and their ' ventrai surfaces narrow; the longitudinal series of minute liairs along the ventro.lateral margins is very iflconspicuous. (Als widest about the proximal third, tapering considerably in the distal haIt, the width at distal third about two-thirds that at the proximal third, apices acute. In distinctly marked specimens (in alcohol), the dorsum of the abdomen is largely brown, the fentora have a brawn preapical annulus and the tibiýe and tarsi are apically infuscated. The dark handb of. the gilli are often'sharply defined. Lengtb of body (without guis) 22-24 mm.; labium 4.3-5.1 inin. (av. 4.7); wing 4.9-5 mm.; hind !enîur 5-5.1 min ;guilX1 .8.9-10 fim. t Lestes disjunctus Selys. 1 found the adults of this species in great ahundance in two marshy coves on the edge of Lonely Lake, Vancouver Island (see under L. congener). There were alsu great numbers of exuviie which 1 felt safe in referring to this species as it was the only ance ~ present. 1 dredged up a number of nympbs which 1 also assumerid.~ ta be disjaanclas, but the few that were reared ail proved to be con gener. Only one specimen, flot reared, was disjunclas. The '",
         "196 TIIE CANADIAN ENTOMOI.OGIST. tirne for emcrgcnce of this species WaS lîraCtically ovcr at the timle the nymphs werc colleecd (July 31, 11)13). Nym ph.-Labiun exceedingly long anI slender, rcaching back beyond the apex of the hind coxwe or even heyonîl the trochanters. The siender proximal part of the mentuminnludes about two- thirds of its length and its breadîh, at the middle, is about one- scventh of the breadth at the base of latcral lobes. It cxpands pmoximad to more than twice its mniddle lîrealîh. Mental setie li or 7; lateral lobes similar to those of ualus, the row of teeth ont thc outer part somnewhat less regular; laierai setiv 3. Latcral spines on segments 5-1) (4-1) on one specirnen); 11-14 spinules on literai carinoe of segment il. t)vipositor extc'ndînti slightly beyond thc hind niargin of segment 101, the styli reaching fuily as far back as the apex. Tlie longitudinal serics of minuit hairs on the ventral surfate of the' valves is siightly mediad of. the lateral margin of the valves. Cis broadest at the proximal third, thence tapering gradually to the siender pointed apices, the breadth at the distal third being less, than two-thirds of the brcadth at the proximal third. The dark bands of thc gis are somewhat diffuse in ail the specimens, and iii some very feebl% indicated. The only other indications of a colour-pattern are the very feeble preapical femoral annuli and the darkcned apices of the tibiae and tarsi in some individuals. Length of body (without gis) 18-19 moi.; labiium 4.75-5.5; outer wing-pad 4.5-5miim.; hind fcmur 5.1 mm.; gi 8.8-10 nlm.; ovipositor 2-2.3 mm. Descrihed from, two nymphs and four exuviie. Lestes forcipatus Rambur. 1 have only a fragmentary maie exuvia with the imago and four mounted labia, of this species, received from Professor Needham. The exuvia lacks bath head and gile o that it i,. impossible to, form a proper idea of the characters of the nympl. Mareaver, one of the mounted labia is considerably larger than the others and appears ta me to belong tu, a different species. Pro- fessr Calvert, however, has kindly furnished mc with the following data taken from a maie, reared by himseif. The nymph wa, collected in Delaware Co., Pa., July 16, 1891, and transfnrmcd on july 22.",
         "THE\u003cCANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST. 197 Mental sctoe C6 on ecd side; lateral stw 3\u002b1 sniall one on uIl laterai edgc of ecil laierai lobe, just Proximal to the .îrti- culation of tht- movable hmîok. Laterai Spilles on abdominal1 segmhents 5-!), SMaliest min 5. Spinules On laterai Criina Of segment 1), 14 oin right sdt, 12 on left. Length of body, without gulis, 17 mm.; mentumt of labium 3.8 nmn.: otiit(r wing-pa\u003cis 5.5 tim. iiintl femur 5min.; gis 1) tamgi. lui Pt-ofessîir Nt-tdhani's maiteritil tht-st characters are \u003cluite siniiiar tb tue alaise. in so far as t-ey art- re)rt-senit-t, extt i maLt orme of the- l.îbia is larger i han itle mît ers, mneasa ring .5 mnnx iit Ivngth, whereas the otliers tie.ssurc barey 4 nmm. ori a littit- less. One' if the latter is lai itlîrd b'Irt-d.' lu'I i t-e slt-citlnî-mms there re 3 laerai stt and 5-6 tnttai setm- on t-a-h side. The- ruth- ilientary st-ta ment jonemi by I'roft-ssor Calvert is pi--ent iii Alt sîîccimens ani iii fact is rarely absent in amiy tif the species of 0' Lestes 1 have exanuined. In the exuvia frrîm iîrofessmir Nt-tdham, iliere are later.il slîines on abdominal segnments 5-9, and tlie laterai carimet of segment 9 hîcar 13-14 sîîimules In ail these characters and alsmi iii the- fmîrnî tf the- labium ;tmd its lateral lobes, there is nothing to distinguish the- nymph of this species from that tof L. rertgzngularis, mu t tht- oviliositor wiii prmibabiy prove to be much larger, resenibling that of L. uncatus, since these relations obtain in tht- adalt. Lestes rectangularus Say. l have lire this species at Toronîto atît have a large t mler - of fuli-grown nymplus takemi Ly Mr. WVodeliouse from a poînd on Fitzwiliiam Island, Georgian Bay, in conipany with L. uncalus. 4 I aiso have exuviie and adults reared hîy Professor Needhamn and il iumber of nymphs taken by ii at Oid Foîrge, N.Y. t Nymp/t-Somewhat smaller than that of L. uncatus, anti of sotaewhat sienderer build. Labium oif nuoderate length, generalv rc-aching back to about the middle of the hind coxwe, but some- limes flot quite reaching their hases whim. in two specimens, muherwise like this species, it extends a littie beyond the apioes mif the coxoe. In none of the four exuviîe of lired specimens that -! 1 have does it cxtend bevond the base of the cox. The siender pîroximal part of the mentum is about 1.25 to 1.5 times as long as 4e~'",
         "198 THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST. the expanded (listai p)art, and just hefore the latter, it is narrowed to about one one-sixth of the width at the base of the lateral lobes, widening towards the hingc to about twice this hreadth. Mental sCtae normally 5, occasionally 6 on one sjde. Lateral lobe,. similar to those of disjunclus, lateral seta' 3. Lateral spines on segments 5-1), of small size, those on5 usually a littie longer than in uncalus. Spinules on lateral carinie of 9, 10-14, usually 11-13. Ovipositor of moderate size, the apex and styli reaching the hind margin of segment 10. The longitudinal series of minute hairs is prescrit on the ventro-lateral edges of the valves. Gilîs slender, gradually tapering from the proximnal third, the breadth at the distal third heing about three- fourths or three-fifths that at the proximal third, apices bluntI. convexo-acute. f The coloration is quite similar to that of uncatus. Somc specimens arc v'ery (listinCtly marked, the bands on the gilis being very conspicuious and sharply defined. Length of body 19-21 mm.; labium 3.6-4.0 mm.; outer wing- pad 4.5-5.5 mm.; hind femur 4.5-5.13 mim.; guil 8.5-9.0 mm.; ovE- positor 1.9-2.0 min. Lestes vlg\u003clai Hagen. Although 1 have l)red this species several times at G;o Home Bay, wvhere the nymphs are plentiful, I have at presenit only thre extiviie froni reared speciniens and one immature nymph fromn that locality and four exuviie front Old Forge, N.Y., received front Professor Needhami. TIhe3' are readily distinguished f ront other species by the characters given in the key. Nymp/.-A siender nyrnph, similar in formi to that of reclangidaris. Labium relatively short, not extcnding behind the bases of the hind coxie and in one exuvia only to the mniddle coxie; somte- what abruptly expanded in its distal part, which is about one- third to two-fifths of its entire length, narrowed at the middle t,, about one-seventh to one-fifth of the apical breadth, and widening towards the hinge to about twice the middle breadth. Mental setS 5 (rarely a small sixth on one side). Inner part of laterai h",
         "CAN ENT. VOL. XLVI PLATE XIV, 10 ia NYMPHS 0F LESTES, 7 12 i1",
         "200 THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST lobes sienderer than in the other species, the marginal teeth prominent, the end-hook long and slender. Inner hook of outer part twice as long as the row of teeth, which is shorter than usual; lateral setae 3. Lateral spines on segments 2- or 3-9, larger than in the other species, those on segment 9, e.g., being about one- fourth the Iength of the lateral niargin of segment 10. Spinule,, on lateral carinoe of segment 9 gcnerally only 6-9, in extrenie cases 5 or 11. Styli and apex of ovipositor flot reaching the' hind margin of segment 10, or the styli barely reaching the margin. The longitudinal series of minute hairs on the ventral ma,-gin of the valves is quite near the inner margin of the valves. Gilîs narrow, the margins being for the greater part of tîteir length nearly straight and subparallel, apices rather broadly rounded, with or withotit slight indications of a point. Femora with a preapical annulus and the extreme apices dusky, a narrow sub- basal tibial annulus is sometimes present. Length of body (without gilîs) 21-23-5 mm.; labium 3.33- 3.8; outer wing-pad 5.2-5.4 mm.; hind femur 5.0-5.5 mm.; gili 10.0-10-5 mm.; ovipositor 2 mm. ExPLANATION 0F PLATES. Plate XIII1. Ventral views of labium and thorax, showing their relative positions when the former is closely applied to, the ventral surface of the latter. The mental setoe are seen 'through the' mentum, as they appear in the transparent exuvioe. Fig. 1. Lestes congener. Fig. 4. Lestes disjunctus. Fig. 2. eurinus. Fig. 5. rectangularis. Fig. 3. unatus. Fig. 6. vigilax. Plate XIV. Lateral lobe of labium (figs. 7-11) and ventral views of abdominal segment 10 of the femnale, showing ovipositor, etc. (figs. 12-16). Fig. 7. Lestes congener. Fig. 12. Lestes congener. Fig. 8. eurimas. Fig. 13. uncalus. Fig. 9. uncatus. Fig. 14. disjunctus. Fig. 10. disjanctas. Fig. 15. rectangularis. Fig. 11.- vigiiax. Fig. 16. vigik4x.",
         "THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOAIT 201 AMERICAN TrRICHOPTERA-NOTES ANI) DESCRIPTIONS. RY NATHAN liANES, EAST FALLS, CHURII, VA. (Colîtintied fr,,l 1). 156.) RYACOPHILIDAE. Rhyacophlla bîfila, ii. si). (Figs. 53, 56.) Female: Relatezl to R. coloradensis, the feinale appenl(agcs or, thc same plan, but both upper and loWcr pieces are more slender. Black, with black and gray or whitish hairs; palpi dark brown;% antennw l)rown, annulate with pale. Xings dark brown, densely rrorate with pale; the costal area mostly pale, stigma long and dark, outer margin with pale spots between thc veins; in hind wings the stigma is also vcry long and dark; forks 1 and 2*equal n lcngth, fork 3 reaching more than one-haîf wav on fork 4. Expanse 21 mm. From Vernon, British Columbia, August (Bryant). Rhyacophlla acropedes, n. sp. (Fig. 39.) Blackish, with black bristles and golden liair; palpi pale; posterior warts pale; antennoe yellowish brown; thorax with two strips of golden hair; legs pale, basal part of tibia 1 and Il to mid- dIle spurs dark, basal parts of ail tarsi dark; spurs blackish, Wings yellowish brown, darker near tip, mostly uninarked, but around apical margin are dark spots at ends of v'eins and pale spots be- tween them; thyridial spot hyaline wvhite; base of stigma dark; in hind wings, which are gray, the stigma is wholly dark. In fore wings fork 2 is a little longer than fork 1, fork 3 hardlv one-half as long as fork 2, fork 4 with base r.early opposite fork 1; discal fork not before fork of median vein. Expaîîse 20 mm. Froni Deer Creek, Provo Canyon, Uttah, 21 Aug. (Spalding). Rhyacophlla bipartîta, n. sp. (Fig. 54.) Palpi brown, paler on base; antennal pale. annulate with brown; head and thorax with pale golden hair; legs pale, darker on tatsi. ' W~ings pale brownish, with faint darker brown transverse marks, on stigma the marks are very distinct, alsa dark marks along cub)itus, and at ends of veins; hind wings yellowish brown, the , June. 1014",
         "?02 THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST stigmna dark; fork 2 in fore wings piainiy longer than fork 1; fork 3 about one-haif way back on fork 4. Expanse 20 mmn. Froin Banff, Canada, 30 Aug. (Sanson). Giossosoma penituis, n. sp. (Figs. 16, 19.) Black; basai part of antenna, paie; legs paie, spurs dark, vertex and thorax with yellowvish gray hair; wings dar\u003c brown, with black hairs and dark brown fringe; a large corneou*., black patch over basai anal area; hind wings with dense black costal fringe. In fore wings fork 3 reaches back as far as fork 2, not staiked, fork 4 about as long as jts pedicel; in hind wings fork 3 is longer than its pedicel. Expanse 12 mmn. Froin Peachland, British Columbia, 21 Juiy (Wallis). Agapetus malleatus, n. sp. (Fig. 57.) Black; the tips of coxie anti hases of femora yellow, and basal part of tibia somewhat yellowish; head anti thorax with yeliowish hair; in fore wings fork 3 is very long, about twice as long as fork 4, fork 5 is long, wideiy divergent, reaching aimost bacc to base of discal celi; in hind wings forks 2 and à are equal in size. Maie has the lower appendage with broad tip, reaching beyond the upper piece, the latter very broad with acute process at lower tip; tht process of sixth ventral segment short and blunt. Expanse Il mmn. From Switzer's Camp, San Gabriel Mits., Calif., 3,000 ftL, 17 june (Grinneli). Paragapettus, ne%, gen. Similar to Agape/us; venation of front wings about the saine, 1)ut fork 3 (in type species) is not longer than fork 4, and so doe., not rearh as far forward. In hind wings the venation is similar to that of fore wings, but no fork 4; fork 1 is present and reaches back to discal celi; for'k 2 aiso back to cell. Paragapetus moearus, n. sp. (Figs. 18, 20, 23.) Palpi black; antennoe dark, annulate with pale, hcad brown. white liair on the anterior part of vertex, brown hair on warts; abdomen duli black, genitalia yellowish, legs yeiiowish, tips of",
         "CAN ENT ,VOL XLVI. PLATE XVi NEW AMERICAN TRICHOPTERA,",
         "204 THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST. tibioe darker above and tarsi also darker. WVings black, with somne scattered yellow hair, the principal marks being three costal spots of yellow, and tbree on hind margin, one at arculus, one beyond, and one before it; in dise various faint markings, transverse; anastomosis hyaline white, hyaline forked, mark on fork of mediaii vein; hind wings gray, with gray fringe. Expanse 8 mm. From Black Mt., North Fork Swannanoa River, N. Car., May, HYDROPSYCHIDK. Ia the classification of this family great importance bas been placed an the presence of ocelli, and of three spurs on the anterior tibia. Since both of these characters are common in tbe Rhyaco- philidie. the ancestors of the Hydropsychidie, 1 think they are not of such great importance,. and as ancestral characters are hiable to break out in variaus places in the Hydropsychidie. To use the two little appendages at the tip of the female abdomen would also produce false alliances. 1 have therefore below used a new char- acter as of prime importance; one that is easy of application: 1. Fork 5 of fore wings subequal in length ta fork 4; palpai joint 2 about as long as 3 or 4; inferiar maIe appeadages two-jointed, usually slender; penis oftea long and prominent .........2 Fork 5 of fore wings much longer than fork 4 (or 1 absent): palpai joint 3 or 4 usually mucb longer than 2 .......... 2. Hmad wings broad, witb a closed discal celI; fork 1lin fore wings: no warts in pits of mesonotum; tip of female abdomen not witb two little appeadages ................Hydropsychini. Hind wings aarrow, no closed discal celI; fark 1 lacking in bath wings; fifth palpai joint nat nearly as long as otbers united; in female mid-tibiaS and tarsi dilated .........Psychomvini. 3. No %arts in pits of mesoaotum; ocelli present; spurs 2, 4, 4, mid-tibize aad'tarsi of female flot dilated..Phiopolamini A small wart in a pit earb side- on mesonotum; spurs 3, 4, 4; no ocelli: mid-tibia.- and tarsi of female dilated (at leasta lit tle ................................. Pot ycentropin i The Hydropsychini will include Hydropsyche, Hydropsy chodes, Arclopsyche, Diptectrona, Rhyarophylax, Smicridea, Polamyia, ý M",
         "THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST 205 ilydromIanirus, A ntarclopSyche, Sympltitopsyche and Stenopsyche. This latter genîls hias been placed in the Philopotamidoc since it lias ocelli, but is more alliecd to Hlydropsyche by aIl other characters. The Psychomyini mwill include, besides the usual genera, Ecnomus; lit was aisa piaced here by MacLachlan. Tinodes is removed to the next tribe. The Polycentropini, hesides the usual genera, includes Tinodes; tbis move is also warrantcd by the structure of the maie genitalia; The Philopotamini lias the tîsual genera, as placed by Dr. Ulmer, but without Sienopsyche. (To be coillinued.) REPORT ON A COLLECTION 0F JAPANESE CRANE- FLIES (TIPULIDE, DIPTERA). flY CHIARL.ES P. AL.EXAND)ER, ÎTHACA, N. Y. (('omiinued, froni p. 161.) (;entis: Tipula Linnevus. Key to the Japanese TipulS. 1. Large species (over 3L) mm. in length) ...................2 Smaller species (Il than 25 min. in lengtb) ............4 2. Wings ochre-hrown, the cross-veins darker, the stigma bright vellow [abdomen ochraceous-brown, the sterrum7 1 palerl ....................... .... rpoens Wied (1) Wings flot Ôcbre-brown with a yelinw stigma .............3 3. Abdominal tergites witb tie auices brown; bypopygium pale ~ u dol fulvous brown, thoracic dorsum blackish witb two rusty lines .................. ...... mikado Westw.() Abdomen witb tbree dorsal longitudinal stripes, the median one indistinct on the basai segments ...coqilleui End. 4. Wings hyaline or subbivaline, witb the costal region darker. .5 * Wings either subbyaline witbout a dark costal border, or else j variegated hyaline, gray and brown .................6 5. Thoracic notum yellowisb; abdomen witbout a distinct stripe on eiter side ......................... yamaa, ). n. '1 roeoîes Wedeianu; usurcr ZcIt. S., Vol. I. pp. 49) 41 (1828). 2 MVikado Westwu.uu; Trani. Ent. S,.-. L.nd., lu,- 187u1, p. ï3t.. Ju-,. iS14",
         "~IlJfiTHE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST Thoracic praescutum and scutum dark; abdomen yellow, witil a broad brown stripe on either side of the yellow mediati vitta ......... ......................... ai0, sp. n. 6. Abdomen with the segments havin,! a dark caudal margin. .7 Abdomen Iined with dark stripes. .....................* 7. Caudal margin of the abdominal segments very narrow; wing\u003e light yellow without darker markings, cxcept the prominent stigma .............................iisulicola, si). n Caudal Joargin of the abdominal segments broad, comprising at Ieast two-thirds of the length of thc sclerite; wings light gray with hyaline blotches ............nipponensis, sp. ni 8. Head yellowish.................................. 1 Head black or dark brown .... ......................l1u 9. Abdomen with a median stripe; flagellum of antennoe black............................. japonice Loew (1 Abdomen wjth three stripes, ne mnedian and two lateral: two basai flagellar segments yellow, remainder brown at base, yellow at tip .......................serricauda, sp. n. 10. Large species (length, e?, 15 mm.; wing, . 19 mm.) ..............................~ YUOII. il Small species (length, dl, 10 mm.; wing, 13-5 mm.) ............................ parie Loew(21 Tipula coquilletti Enderlein. 1898 Tipule nubifera Coquillett; Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., 'vol. 21, P. 305. 1902 Tipule nubifera Kertess; Cat. Dipt., vol. 2, p. 299. 1912 Tipule coquilletti Enderlein; Zool. Jahrb., vol. 32, pi. 1, p. 7. A maie and female: the following a Irlenda to Coquillett's dles- cription may be of value: The legs in my specimens have the femora and tibioe almosi uniformly dark brown; abdomen very long for a Tipule. Thu wing is shown in plate 16, figure 7. Maie hypopygium: 8th tergiîi rather broad, its caudal margin almost straight; 8th sternite (sec plate (1) figure 17), much produced caudad into a scoop-like lobe which is very deeply notche meially, the tips of the lobes directe, 1 1 JaPosca Loew;, Wi7e En.7 Mnatschr,, Vol. 2, P. 10I, 102 (1858)w 2 Parva Loew; WViener Ent. Monatschr., vol. 2. P. M0 (l8iS). 3 Plate 17 wvilI appear in thte n-ýxt iiu '. I",
         "CAN. ENT .VOL. \u003eXLVI. JAPANESE CRANE-FLIES, T PLATE XVI.",
         "ZU8 THIE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST inWard; 9th tergite rather smnall (sec Plate 17, figure 8), viewc(i from ahove, the caud, I margin is narrowed and evenly concave. the whole caudal end heing covered densely with srnail black Spicules; suture lietween the sternum and tergui flot cecar; 9th sternite (plate 16, figure 7), hroad, its caudal margin concave. Pleural appendage, a large flattened lobe (sce plate 17, figure 10), on the inside (plate 17, figure 9), with the dorsal ottter angle(lense1% provided willh short black spicules, with numtrous otiier spicule\u003e down the inner face. Female (alloty'pic): tergal valves ofl the ovipositor long acnd slender, heavily chitinized, flot so deep as the high sternal v'alves. Vial 13; Tokyo, japan; April 25, 1912; le', 19 . Tîpula yamata, sp. n. Head blackish; 'horaçic notumi yelloiwislî; anterior half of the pleura dark lcrown: abdomen without distinct longitudinal stripes; wings with a pale brown suffusion, the costal region a little darkvi. Male, length 12 mm.; wing 16.6 mm. Female, length 19.2 mm.; wing 16.8 mml. MaIe.-Palpi dul yellow; frontal prolongation of the head iather short, dul yellow; antennie light yellow, the flagellar seg- ments passing into brown; front, vertex and occiput dark browi! passing int yellow on the geme-. Pronotumi brown. Mesonotum light coloured, yellowish, wiîh indistinct, narrow, darker stripes on the pra'scutum. Pleui a, pro- pleura and anterior half of the mesopleura and the metapleura, pale, whitish, Halteres long, slender, pale. Legs: fore and midlet coxie dark brown; trochanters and femora yellow, liglit brown a( tip; tibiae yellowisli, brown darker at the tip; tarsi brown. WVing-, with a pale brown suffusion; costal bourder darker brown, this colour inclLiding celîs C and Sc.; stigma greyish brown. Venation. see plate 16, figure 5. Abdominal tergites 1-4 yellowish, 5-9 darkened, browvni.sl; sternites 1-6 yellow, 7 yellow with a brown median Uine, 8 bro%ýji basally, yellow at the tip. MaIe hypopyguimi: lith tergite fri above with a prominent median chitinized protuberence, its caudal margin gently concave and with short lîristles and chitîniel points. Pleural suture incomplete; pleural appendages as follow_, outermost (see plate 17, figure 3), a broad, flattened lobe qîlîte",
         "THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST. 20(J dcnsely c9o'ered with long hairs, these haiis rather Stout except along the caudal margin Where they are delicate, fringe-like; just Inside this appendage is' a cyiiodrical, chitinizcd amn directed toward the cnd of the 9th tergite, the apex cvenly rountled; the largest of thc pleural appendages is a flattened arm whose apex is notc!ied and crenulatc'd and fits into the notch of the 9tlh tergite; the penis is verv long antI sliuider, the central vesicle large and rounded. Female.-About as in the e\", the tlagcllar segments suban. nulate, the apical thrce-fifths of each segment being much paler than the basal portion; abdominal tergites 5-7 with a dark brown basaI mark, segments 8 to the entI brown; valves of the ovipositor short and sharply pointed. In one 9 , the entire terguni bevond segments 1-3 is almost entirely dark brown but this may be caused bv the gravid condition of the abdomen which is greatly distended with eggs. Holotype, cr, Tokyo, japan; August, 1912 (Vial 42). Allotype, 9, Tokyo, japan; August, 1912 (Vial K). Paratypes, 2 9, Tokyo, japan; May 7, 1912 (Vial 34). The specific name is that of an aboriginal japanese race inhabiting the southern and central portions of the southern half of Nippon, facing the Pacifie Ocean. Tipula aino, sp. n. Head blackish; proescutum and scutum dark coloured ; abdomen ycllow with two dorsal brown lines, one on either side of the broad ground stripe; wings with a slight gray tinge, costal region brown. Male.-Length 16 mm.; wing 16.5-18.4 mm. Female.-Length 19.4 mm.; wing 20.5 mm. Male.-Palpi and the frontal prolongation of the head brown; antcnnïe with the three basai segments orange, segments 4 and 5 orange at the extreme base, entire remainder of the antenn-e black; front, vertex and occiput dark coloured, blackish. Mesonotum with the priescutuni and most of the scutum uiniformly dark brown with narrow darker stripes, one median and one on either side; scutum pale medially, lobes very dark; scutellum and postnotum dulI vellow, the latter a little brown on the sides and in some specimens entirely dark. Pleura dul yellow ,,",
         "210) mT CA NADItAN lt.NTitMO Iq s%' witii a itrîîwi linge on tIlle itr\u003ctpiera alfui a tcriuîr puurt ions of tlie( niNiîen î iali trcs ratlier longî, paie. Legs: Cî\u003eXi and t rxoî- aniliers li ghlt ilw feiiuura iiaIigcV-\u003eeIiîW the ti1î brown ; tii iii- yeli isiî o\u003en te li b asal haif, t lîctce passinig inito iîrown; t.irsi IirîWn. Wings .% itli al uiark iîriiwi coistal bourder, this ini- cluii lng ceils C , Sc., anid Illu cuphalic liaiVV usOf celis R and Ist Ri; t g nia ven iarker: iliiîst of elis R anid NI and Ill bu ases of cci i. R2. R3 andî Rh hya line.; reniainilur oif the wigs witi a liriwnish- gray tlige. Venat î\u003c il s ini plate i t, liguitre :. Aibdomiiinal t urgites veiiow wit i a i ro aii i ri in st ripe oii cadi side, t busc st ripes i cuurng confluiînt onî segmenitts 7 and 8; caudal margin o f scgireiits 3-t6 iarritwil i riiwnt stcnit us \u003cIl ti l iow, theu canulail iargins oîf t bu scgmntts al lit tde ilankîýr. m aie iiypIopygiîtiii: 1tit tuî gite frot aisive (Se plate Ill, figure 4), witit the iaterii. c'aiudl iangles lîrn iutccd il to st ng 5jliti l it beuii Wii is a sitiail rotindueil lbe cuivercil w tii iairs; su1tutre itetWceît thli tergnîil aiî stertnium lie)t cicir; aipuitiuges i f Ille li trai region vi'jei frnti tue suie (set, liliate 17, ligure 5). tmo î inî tiniter, flic nmirt ectad tif whbichit il large, oval lobi e, smiiewiat ciit inii.c lin ilts cdgcs, ilis v ent ri-cephialie itargili ion th lin isiii wi tii a sirtali ova i knîîi prirudeil iltii lirs; iii lier loiibe vcry large, tls caud(al edge thiickciicîl antd lîcre prîtvidic\u003c al i\u003cs t(il)i wilt b a coîti i of itristles di- rected catilad antd ait apical I t uîi udlirecte cd îrsad; itînier face of titis appeixîage vicar i ts ti iîth tii griiiip iof aibou t, 14 sharp poinits, Femiale. -Oiposituur witiî tAie sternîal v'alves v'cry Iligb, lilade - like, thle tips stubactite; tergal valves very sieîiier apicaiîv, the tip scarcciv cnlargcd. H(iiitype, e, Tokyo, Jap,îit Ajiril 13, i1t912 (Vial 12). Allîtv1w, Y , Tokvî, Japî,uu Alîril 1:1, 11912 (Vial 12). Paratvpcs, 5 e', 5 9 a is foiIutws: Vial J; 1 9 , Tokvyo, J apai; Atigtist , 101i2(t irte) Viîal 12; 2eo, 2 Q , Tokyo, Japant; Alîril 13, 1912 (('ornelî). Viai 410; 3e, 29Q, Tokyo, jajiai, Atigust, 1912 (11. S. Nat. NMLIs.). Tue specitie ntainie is iliat of ait aitorigitual japianese race fori meriy ocCttpying the northcrn htallf illiîion, now confined to Vesso and the isiands to the northward. ý m",
         "THIE (A NAIA N ENT(MOLOI.î;ST 211 Tipula insulîcola,,\u003el. nl. An tenna' anniiate,1 li\u003eack an\u003e!f yelhî(W; thuorax wi tiou tiils lit-t iron S ries;wins liglît yu'liîw with al promrinen t ovai brown stigninais îiîlsge with il uark cauitil Illa.rgin. l'eniaie. Aeligth 11.2 inni.; wing 11.3 min. F'ele.tIV l' Piî and frontt al Iîrilotigit ii, \u003cf Ille hiieî brow lie latter short au\u003e!l stu\u003et; aInttenîi. witih the th rue liasil se(gmleniitls veliîîw, reinaining segmnits wi tih the b asal tWO-filfthls i ark brown, thle atPies Iigh t yu!Iîîw, t hest. colours ablri\u003e pt y colit riste, I; froint, \u003e criex anld o)cipi\u003eti briîwn. l'ri,seti tii» lu!! yel\u003e\u003ew witl t tlree inisit litc i r\u003eîwî sirip\u003es of %%Iliel itle lie\u003e iii onie is I r\u003eîaîl, the l.iteral onlis ,ihorter 111(1 1dr row\u003car; scuttu\u003en i tii the' jlies relî is c ejL ian!îotnî i liii I yel low. lIeura \u003cliii! yellîîw. iitures i tiii yiilîî. Legs coai, trochîait ters titi\u003e! feittuira ligli t YCel!oW t iliji' l\u003ero wîish yel!\u003cîw, alittie Iarkeîileî at thle ti1î; tarsi Iurowii. Wiîigs light vellîiw, ceIls C anîd Sc. a little b righ ter: stigina Iirîîiiinent. rival; an in - dliltînt hyal ie st riie ,ier\u003e ss thle wing liegit i ig I efore th e sti gia atnd iticiid iig cill I st M2. Venat ion, se plate 16t, figu ru 6. Abdiomninal i irgites dii! v'eilow, each segmnuet tiîttrroi v but dIlt ilct!y iîargiiiui aitii lai-k b rîîwn Al arund, stern ites very pale, ai iost Wh ite, each segmtet ith l thle cauatl mîargiii narr\u003ewl v i' br\u003ewii: geiiital segment reddishi ve!iow. Oviposit\u003eîr with the tergal hlvslaving a %tout, 1-nlargeti ibase, the valves produedî catîdaîl tnto exeelingIy ,lieader points wliicli are slighltly expaiide ait tilleir titis; tergal valves m uch sliîrter tiian the ehîtigate, bladelike siurittl val vus wliieii are ilirected caucidi. Holotype, 9?, To»kyo, japait ; August .1912 (Vi\u003e! K).C TlWO NEXV 'ALIFORNIA THAMNO'l'î.r-î-X (HOM OPTERA). i, E. l). BlAI.. . , t f. 'iiile colleeting in Califormia, several years ag\u003e, a single. t sjeeiînun of a beautifu! Titamnotettix was capturcd, but escapcd f oi the net; not, however before its eluaracters were prutty dcli- J,'- 1914",
         "212 THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST nitelylixed in mind. While collccting in another localitv last year the same species was found an(l instantlv recognized, and, like the former one, lost. This nosv became the chief object of search, and later it was capttired in several different places. Its rcmarkable agility iii escaping fromn a net probably being a reason it basnfot heen capturcd before. Thamnotettîx pasadena, n. sp. Size aiid form o\u003ef ursina ncarly, colour pattern resembling (ollaris, but stili more highly ornarnentcd. Ricli brown, with heati. saddle and antcapical band yellow. Lcngth 9 6.5mni; e' 6mr.; width l.5mrn. Vertex definitely obtusely angled, almost two-thjrds as long as its basai width, slightly shorter than the pronotum, one-half longer at apex than against the eye, dise flat, the margins rounding to the front cxcept at the conical apex, front broadly wedge-shaped, the lateral margins nearly straight, clypeus broad, slightly con- stricted. Elytra moderately long, strongly flaring behind. Vena- dion weak, often obscure, with irregular reticulations in the ante- apical ceils, often especially cmphasized along the clavai and costal margins. Colour-Vertex and face light vellow to yellowish ivorv, eyes reddish or reddish brown, pronotum i ich brown, the anterlor submargin rich brown, with a row of irregular coalescing black spots, on either side a transverse median ivory mark; scutelluni rich brown, sometimes with a medium light shield ornamented with two round dots. Elytra with the anterior twoY-thirds of clavai areas rich yellowish ivory, the remainder brown, coriuni yellowish subhyaline, a brown cloud along the clavai suture abruptx terminating just before the apex of clavus, where it expands and. uniting with the clavai markings, forms a transverse brown. bandI which narrows toward tihe costa and becomes slightiy oblique, the reflexed apices of the elytra, inciuding most of the apical area, smoky brown. Genitalia-Fem.ale ultimate segment three or four times as long as the preceding, deeply angularly excavated front the lateral angIrs two-thirds of its depth, the bottom of the notch broadlv 'I",
         "THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIsT. 213 evcnly rounding, whole segment CUrvc\u003cl arouind the pygofers untul t appears to be only broa\u003clly ;nid shallowly excavated on the niiedian third. Pygofcrs long, laut considerably excee(lcd by the clytra. Male, valve stout, obtUsly angular with a strong mc(lian ridgc cither side of which the lateral mnargins are semicircularly deprcssccl, giving the appearan(ce of a wavcîl margin aul a ni\u003etched apex, plates togethcr bluntly spoon-shape\u003cl, their apices slighitly parted amnd heavily clothed xvith coarsc Jiair'.; just v isible ab\u003cve thiese are two long curved hooks. Dcscribed front vight examples front (Xlifornia collccted by hec author in July and August, 1912. Thjis is the nîiost strilkingly iliarkcd species in the genus, and, while the gcnitalia arc slightly %arialile, its size and colour pattern w ill at once distinguish it. Thamnotettdx januata, ni. si). Resembling flarocapitlaa, but smaller, darker and with a shorter vertex. Pale brown with the vertex light yellow. Length 4.75 mm. Vertex twice wider than lonig, obtusely angled, one-fourth longer on middle than against the eve; dise convex in bath diameters, the apex bluntly subeonical; face convex, front long, narrow, wedge-shaped, clypeus long, the apex expanded. Pronotum broad and fully a third longer than the vertex. Elvtra long, narrow arnd posteriorly appresscd. Colour-Vc[tex lemon yellow, sometimes with a faint brownish line just back of the anteriar margin and parallel with the basal niargin. Face and below pale straw. Pronotum olive hrown, with the anterior margin narrowly lighter, scutellum washed with ' orange. Elytra olive br\u003ewa with costal margin shading out to a subliyaline. Whole insect slightly coppery iridescent. ('enitalia -Female segmîent nearlv tu ice wi(ler than long, the whole posterior margin obtuscly, angularly excav'atcd with a p narrow median strap.shaped tooth which extends beyond the lateral angles. MaIe, valve aval convex, plates together, slightly longer than wide with the apices slightly filamentous. Described from four examples from San Francisco, Cal. cllected by the author. A small and obscurely marked but quite distinct species.",
         "214 THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST. THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOc»ICAL SERVICE. Thirtv years ago, in 1884, the Canadian Covernment ap. pointed a Dominion Entomologist to advise agriculturists and others regarding the control of insect pests. Two years later, on the establishment of the Experimcntal Farms' system, D)r. James Fletcher, who occupied the position, Nvas attached to the new Branch of the I)epartment of Agriculture in the joint capacity of Entomologist and Botanist, which position lie occupied with con- spicuous success until hjs dcath ini 1908. The growth in importance of the two subjects necessitated their separation, and accordingx Divisions of Entomology and Botany were crcatcd. Dr. C. Gordon Hewitt was appointcd Dominion Entomologist in 1909 and en- trusted with the work of organizing thc new D)ivision of Ento- mology of the Experimental Fanas' Branch of the Department of Agriculture with offices and laboratory at thc Central Experimentai Farm, O)ttawa. The urgent nced of legisiation in order to pcrmit action to be taken to prevent the introdluction into Canada and sprcad within the country of serions insuct pests and plant diseases, was respon. siblc for the passage of the Decstructive lnsect and Pest Act inlIO. Thc stili greater need of investigations on the insect pests affectingt agriculture, forcstry, and other bîranches of hunian activity, ha., led to the establishment oif field or regitinal laboratories in different parts of Canada with trained Entomologîsts in charge to study the local problenis. Owing to the consequent expansion of the Entoniological work along investigatory and administrative lines and the fact that suc\u003e work did not constitute a nccessary part of the work of the Experi- mental Farms' system, and executivelh' was virtually distinct, thc Entonmological Service lias now been s-parated fromi the Experi- mental Farms' Branch and lias been constituted an independeni Brandi of the I)epartment of Agriculture under the direction of the Dominion Entomologist. It is proposed to erect a building to provi(le offices and laboratories f\u003cor the new Entomological Brandi. Will corres»pondents kindly note that aIl officia] communication\u003e and publications should be addressed to \"The D)ominion Ento- mologist, Department of Agriculture. Ottawa.\"",
         "THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST. 215 This reorganization, which will also include the establishment of a national Collection of the insects of Canada in the Canadian National Museum (the Victoria Memnorial Museum) at Ottawa, under the care of the Dominion Entomologist, marks an important step in Canadian Entomology. It will result in a still greater devclopment in the study of Canadian insects along scicntific and liractical lunes. The present organization of the Entomnological Branch of the - (anadian I)epartment of Agriculture is as follows: D\u003eominion Entomologist and Chief. ý. C. Gordon Hewitt, D. Sc., F.R.S.C. Chief Assistant Entornologist ..Arthur Gibson. Assistant Entomologist in Charge of Forest Insect Investigations.... M. Swaine, M.Sc.,B.S.A. Assistant Entomologîst iii Charge of Fruit Inscct Investigations.... ... FIi.D OFFICERS IN CHSARGE ()t. BRAXNcu LmBORATURIES: G. E. Sanders, B.S.A., Entoinrilogical Lahoratory, Bridgetown, NS. J. 1). Tothill, B.S.A., and L. S. McLaine, M.Sc., Entornlogicaî Lahoratory, Fredericton, N.B. V. E. Petch, B.S.A., Entomological Libaratory, Covey Hill, Que. Win. A. Ross, B.S.A., Entoinologicîî Laboratory, Vincland Station, Ont. H. F. Hudson, B.S.A., Entoniological Lahoratory, Strathroy, Ont.W Norman ('riddle, Entomological Laboratory, Treesbank, Man. E. H. Strickland, Entomnologicaî a aov Lethbridgc, Alta. R. C. Treherne, B.S.A., Entomological Laboratory, Agassiz, B.C. Field Officer for Forest Ins2et lnvestigstio\u003c1s-.. N. Chrystal, B.Sc. INSPECT\u003eRS AND ASSISTANTS: A. B. Baird, Fredericton, N.B.; J. Perrin, Halifax, N.. Artjs Assitant J. 1. Beaulne, Ottawa. Artist Assistant.... .......... .. ..... ... ........A. E. Kcllett.. , îî Il",
         "216 THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST SUPERINTENDENTS OF FumIGT\u003cjvIO, ANI) I'4SPEUTORS: H. E. Goold, St. John, N.B. L. Paradis, St. Johins, Que. G. Manlcy, Niagara Falls, Ont, C. Wright, Windsor, Ont. A. K. Leith, Winnipeg, Man. T. R. Waddington, North Portal, Sask. Inspector of Indian Orchards.. .T. WVilson. S UCRIETAR1I ES: J. A. Lctourneau; Miss J. McInnes; J. M. Moloughney; Miss E. Read. Laboratory Assistant. H. S. Fleming C. (;. H. BOO0K REVIEW. \"MACROLEPLDOPrEýRA 0F THE WosRI..\" By Prof. D)r. A. Scit. The issue of Volume Il. of \"Macralepidoptcra of the WVarld,\" by Prof. Seitz, concludes the palearctic part of this great work, inasînuch as \"Maths\" (Tineida.) and \"Spinners\" (Bombycidiv} are concerned. This edition is quite v'aluminous, containing fullv 440 pages of text alone, irrespective of the index. It represents, like volume 1 of \"Butterfiies,\" the most conmlete work of its kind known to-day. Abave ail, it contains figures of almost ail the species of the Amur region of Turkestan, of the Caucasus, of Persia, of Syria, etc., many of these illustrations having appeared for the first tirne. The text of this volume was compiled by nine authars, gener- ally known as reliable authorities on Entomalogy. la this resîxec it certainly is astonishing that, notwithstanding the \"many caoks,' a pleasing uniformity lias been ohtained in regard to the text as weIl as ta, the plates, which unîformity daes flot appear in so marked a degree throughout Volume 1. The following figures will serve ta give a gaod i(lea oif the thoroughness of the volume in question: In the Catalogue of Staudinger-Rebel, which appeared 13 years ago, 238 forms of Zygoenida were enumerated, while \"Seitz' lists 418 Zygaenidoe of the palearctic region alune; of Saturnidet \"Seitz\" has 122, against \" Staudinger- Rebel's\" 31. Furthermore, \"Seitz\" describes 329 Sphingidoe against 100 mentioned ini the 'I",
         "THE \u003cANAIAN 1-NTOMoLO(;r.sT. 217 \"Stanud i lige r- Rbel' \"-Ca t ogue \u003cif Uvîtpîrc,'86 are giveln lu the 'Suit,' wiie in ''Stauod inger's'' Work ottly 2:3 ,tre show~n; of Lillacod\u003clae 46 are fourni in t hi \"Se t, %vhreas 15 art atccourited for i n t be catalogue ientiolleîl ai sas'. Ali in \u003ctii, tbts Vol tinte cle.stril)es a)ou t 30011 spCc of Spnnr (or v'arieties tiiereof\u003e, b)eshles ab)out :lot) SIphiiîgida'g. Tlhe Humber of coloure\u003cl figures on 55 plattes ailîount(s to nearly 241). When it is consjîlered that thei Moths and Sjîlnners in the Staudinger do flot qui te ni nbier a t bousanîl (iii wb reli, of course, sumre v'ariet jus arc to lie counted), one rnust readiiy admit that ijur knowledge of the palearctic region, witlb referurîce to Ettoinol\u003cigy, bas been v'astiy increased liy mneans of titis gigan tic w~ork. 'l'îe reiiaiiity of tite text, i t n îst lie said. catn only lie j udged lîy those versed in this subject. ojr la' siecialists of the palearctîc Fauna. 'l'îlie naines of t iie atthors, whoî con trilîntedto th is work, atrc St) wei I k nowt n luthe scieni Iic w\u003cirld t bat one inay rcadily place confidence in their statemnî'nts anîd their scientilic w\u003cirk. By reading a chapter of the ''Suit,,' it wili doulitless lie ascer- \" ' tained Chtat the numnerous servicealli hints tin coliecting and rearing rnoths and caterpiliars, ,tre liased tipon personad experience; aînd that, furtiiernmore, the attlr lîmefbs personaliy bred the ' pîrincipal representatives of alinuîst ail the species, no (natter wbether they live ln the Artitr regionr, \u003cjr in Syria, \u003cor in Maure.-\u003c tania, etc. He bas, at an\u003e, rate, oliserv'eî thein alive. T1'ie vast amount of infornmation min foo\u003cl-îlants, on methods 'of coliecting, etc., are, no doulît, of the utinost impo'rtanc'e to any collector; for is there any othèr boonk wiîicb menlions, c.g., at what bour the c.tterpillars of Emydia siriala inust lie coilectejl, iii \u003crder t\u003cî olîrain them in greatcst alîtn\u003clance? or is tiberc orte that cautions against îielay in taking in the Ognogyna caterpiliars, tnd admonishes tis to ,,~ coileet thcm liefore the grass bas growni so) higli that they are ctîmplctely hidîlen from sight? As in the first volume the plates are the rnost important features of the work. If anyone sh\u003cîuld Jîresurne the assertion to lie too bold that it was left to the \"Seltz\" tu show the worîd what really good figures are, he certainiy ought to make a critical com- riarison with other works of this kind. The average collectors are, oif course, satisfied with the illustrations in the new \"Berge,\" and '",
         "218 THE C.ANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST evcrybotiy admiits that the' butttertiie's iltstrateîi therein, in' thai coil)x ittiXeti conlîatiy,,l i wh iti uiterpillars, plants anti Iu tter fies aire piaucei toget her upoit a tint cd 1I iaukgroti IIl, presen t al, attractive pict urc. But t 1w (1ii t test' 'pt tires' compare wit h thase of the \"Seitz'' frit a suienîliju viewjîojt. If, foîr Instance. a Batis in the ''Seltz' he cîîtîp.tred i ith the uorrespotîting figure of a Batis in the ' Berge \" (latte 28, figutre 491e), al vast differecvi manifests i tseif. Tihis aisti appi ls Il Ille illutirations Of t he Victîna Etimpertir Moth. i3îîking at Pliate 21) of \"Berge,\" wl thon t comrparing with natture, omne is weii picascul with the figure of 'pyri,'' fig. 11); but a ctîmparismîn with the figure in the ''Seitz,'' table 311), ijistitses the nmistakcs tif thie formier at once. Thu borders andti ie grourmid 'ulur tif the wings in the ''Berge'' are yeilowish rcd, whcretts, in reality thev are grey, as correctiy tie- picted la the ''Seltz.'' Of course, the represeîîtatiîîn of pyri in tht' \"Seltz\" tioes not mnake a litiliant sh\u003cîwing, as oniy ine-half of tht' insect is iiiustrated, and is furthcrmmrc uit as finely elahoratcd, iii order ta be in acutîrdance with re.ti nature, and because it dues not show any head. But hb' caînparing it with a specimen in anc s collection, it is at once evidemt. that, viewed fram ahove, pyri seems to lue headiess, as do) ais\u003e spini and pavonia. The figure it the \"Berge,\" which shows a big head, is a inere phantasm, whih' the half figure la the \"Seltz\" is genuine nature. It is, therftmre, ta anybady who emrncstiy intentis tii work ln Eatomology far mort' valuable, than the \"trimeci-tp\" antd \"pleasingiy grouped\" il- lustrations of amateur-works. This apparcntly trivial po\u003eint has lîeen mentioned quite ln- tentioaiy, as there is a species ciasely resemmiing pyri, nameiy, atiantica, la which, viewed frota aimave, the fîîrehead is cieariy t10 be seen. To convcy an idea tof the nummer af plates contained 'la tihe different volumes of \"Seltz,\" so far priuted, it may he mentioned that up to last year they aiready excecded 500. As it is, the author has unquestionaiîly earned weii-deserx'ed praise with the eminentiy satisfactary issue of roe \"Second Volume of Macrolepidoptera.\" la the meantime Volume Ill has ais\u003cî been finished, and Volume IV is neariy completed. I t goes",
         "THEIC ANAIiS [eNTO(mmuî(;IsT 219 (vitiloLit saying, that these new pub\u003elicationus aire juisi lis excellent n every partiCillar lis the twO formner ofles. MM(RîPIî.z,1'1 k-ýRA OF THEi~tR.I'1 also l)LIllishcqI in a separate English Fdiùion hy the \"Verlag (les Seitz's(,h(el Werkes,' Stuttgart ('ran. W 11 I A11\u003c Bal (mlore, Md. THuE Officers (of t lCI e l((I Biological ('liob, whoSe Minies were ornitted from our notice in tlue May number (1p. 184), aire as fol- lows: Prcsident, D)r. H. W. Hill; Vice- Presiden t, D)r. S. WVolverton C'urato*r, Mr. J. F. ('alivert; S'ecýretary-'l're«asurer, Mr. J. W. Nole.à THE OCCIJRRENCF, 0F THE HOUSE CFNTIPEDE, SCUTIGIiRA FORCEPS RAF., IN CANADA. When rctiring for the night on April 15th 1 wa, nost n- trester! to capture in ry lathroon lit the hotel in which 1 was r staying in Toroînto, an aduit female specirnen oif this remarkablc nyriapod, whose occurrence in Canada has flot heen previousli recorder!, su, far as 1 amn aware. 41 It is a southerni species, its normal habitat being the Southern States. As early ais 1849) it was (\u003ebserv'er in Pennsylvania, and it bas gra(ltally spread northwarl. Mr. R. V.C(hamberlin informs. (lie tliat the most northerly locality which he has recorder! frorn itpi is Boston, Mass., and that it also \u003cccurs lit Ithaca, N. Y. The captured specimen, after enabling me to sturly its nîethod of capturing flues, dicd a few (lays lifter my return tri Ottawa. Sclaiera feeds on, house-flies, roaclics anrl ther household insects, springîng on themr and inîprisoning thcm in its tunusually long legs. An account of its habits is given ly Marlatt in Howardl \u0026 Marlatt's r \"Ilousehol Insects' (Bull. No. 4, N. S. Div. Ent., [k. S. 1)ept. of Agric., pp. 47-50, 1896. C. GO(RDLON H(WITT. PRoriEssoR W.,LTER C. OKANE, Entomologist to the Nw Hampshire Experiment Station, and Professor of Economic Ento- mology in New Hampshire College, bas been elected Professor of .. Zoology and Entomolngy at the Ohio State University, from whîch le graduated in 1897. He is widely known as the author of an excellent work on injurious insects, published in 1912. îèï",
         "220 THE CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST A NEW WASP FROM THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS. liv T. D. A. COCKERELL, BIOULDER, ('ALIF. Cerceris angularîs, n. sp. 12 .-Length about 16 mm., anterior wing a fitnie over 11; black, with the abdomen iargeiy rcd; no yeiiow rnarkings, except that a high keel betwecn the antennie is pale yellow, and the man- dibles have a broad, dulit straw-coloured longitudinal band on the basai haîf; iiead very large; eyes converging above; vertex an\u003cl checks very broad, mith strong punetures on a shining ground; oceili close together; face covered with appressed siivery hair; an- tennie biack, apical joint parti\u003e, red; clypeus flot keeled, but trans- versely obtusely elevated in middle, the part above the elevation duli and feebly punctured, that below [t smooth and shining, the * lower margin indistinctly bidentate, with a littie round tubercle in the subrnarginal region above each tooth; mandibles with an enor- mous triangular shining tooth on inner side about the middle; molar space wanting; thorax (full, with large but flot ver)' deep punctures, those on the mesothorax in grooves, the margins of the groove-. * forming longitudinal ridges, especially [n the anterior middle region; area of metathorax with weak basai plicie, and beyond with oblique plicae, which arch over and join [n the middle fine, where they bc- corne transverse; under side of thorax with fine silvery tomentum; mesopieuroe grooved, extended into a great angular projection or tooth, the sharp edge of which [s vertical; legs black; teguoe black; wings dark fuliginous, venation normal; abdomen with the joints beyond the second flot constricted; punctures distinct but sparse; first segment black with an apical red hand; second and third segments bright ferruginous; remaining segments black, except thai fourth is red at extrerne sides; venter with very minute punctures, and scattered larger ones; fifth ventral segment depressed in middle, sixth deeply incised; pygidial plate finely rugose, narrow, tiuncate. Hab.-Mt. Makiling, Luzon (Baker). Structuraliy somewhat allied to C. elizabetzo Bingham, but that is a much smaiier species. with different colours. In many ways C. vafra Bingharn is appar- ently ailied, but it is larger, with a different clypeus, etc. FORMER students of Professor John Henry Comstock have raised a fund, to, be known as the Comstock Memorial LibrarY Fund, which is to be presented to Corneil University for a per- manent memorial of Professor Comstock's forty years of distin- guished service as instructor and professor of entomology. He i, to retire from active teaching as a member of the faculty next J une, at the age of sixty-five. The ceremony of presental ion wilI take place on June 13.-[Science. Mailed June 10th, 1914."
      ],
      "published" : [
         "London [Ont. : The Society, 1914]"
      ],
      "note" : [
         "Bimonthly, 1991?-",
         "Index for v. 46 in v. 46, no. 12, CIHM no. 8_05087_551."
      ],
      "lang" : [
         "eng"
      ],
      "title" : [
         "The Canadian entomologist"
      ],
      "type" : "document"
   }
}
{
   "doc" : {
