      "identifier" : [
         "8_04117_577"
      ],
      "text" : [
         "400 ANNÉE QUiBEc, NovEMrEU 1918 No 8 [ENSEIN r PMAR PÉDAGOGIE VEILLONS SUR LA SANTE DES ENFANTS A propos de lépidémie de grippe qui a sévi si cruellement par tout le pays--et qui n'est pas gncore comnplètem\u003cMt disparue-notre collabora. teur, M. le Dr Paradis, hygiéniste compétent, donne d'excellents conseils sur les \" soins de la bouche \", tns la Présente livraison. Nous conseillons la lecture attentive de cet article. Nous croyons l'occasion favorable de rappeler aux instituteurs et aux institutrices combien à l'école, au couvent O à l'académie, il importe de veiller sur la santé des enfants que les parents remettent en toute confiance à la garde des éducateurs de la jeunesse. Comme l'école est une annexe de la famille, il s'en suit que les maî- tres e mattrese doiveht s'intéresser à la santé des enfants durant les heures de classe et pendant ls récréations. Que de précautions le bon maître et la bonne maîtresse ne pren- dront-ils pas pour prévenir les mille et un dangers auxquels la santé des enfants est exposée à l'école! Aération des classes, chauffage balayage, etc., tout se fera ave de sages Précautions. La moindre néglige)ace peut être cause d'un refroidissement ou autre accideit capabné de com- promettre la santé des pahvres élèves qui n'ont personne pour l protéger à l'écofe, si le maître ou la maitrese ne sont pas prudents et consciencieux. Il faut éviter d'ouvrir les fenetres de la classe lorsque lei enfants sont à leur placenu-cou, nu-tôte ; il faut obliger le enfants à se couvrir durant les récréations du matin et du soir et non les laisser faire à leur guise ; il fat chauffer convenablement les salles de classe dr que la empérature l'exige et non attendre à telle date pour allumer les four- aises ou les poêles ; il faut veiller avec le plus grand soin sur l'eau à \u003eoire qui est mise à la disposition des élèves pendant la classe ; il faut galement veiller au bon entretien des latrines. Résumons en disant : que les maîtres et les maitre»ses doivent 'eiller sur la santé des élèves à l'école comme de bons et intefligents arents font dans la famille vis-à-vis de leurs enfants. Les parejits apprécient plus qu'on ne le pense la prudente bonté es éducateurs à l'égard des élèves. C.-J. MAGNAN.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE HYGIENE DES SOINS BE LA BOUCHE En ces temps d'épidémie nous croyons qu'il est opportun de prier nos instituteurs et nos institutrices d'exercer une vigilance de tous les Instants et d'éloigner de l'école tout enfant suspect. Il est entendu que cete surveillance sea discrète, prudente, mais inlassable et énergique. Au sujet de l'épidémie de grippe actuelle nous signalkrons l'une des causes de contagion lJ plus sûres et les plus communes, c'est-à-dire la négligepce dep soins de la bouche. Le microbe de l'influenza pénètre en notre organisme par la bouche et les fosses nasales. Nous nous empressons de dire qu'il est assez facile d'aseptiseq cep voie\u003e et détuire ce microbe. La bouche est un receptacle de tous les microbes qui, à l'état normal, s'y dévgloppent et séjournent. Ce. microbes sont apportés par l'air extérieur, les poussières, les aliments, les boissons,' etc. Nombre de ces microbes sont neptres ; la plupart sont des plus dangereux. La chaleur et l'humidité de la bouche en2 font un milieu des plus favorables à lepr vitalité et leur multiplication. Nous avons donc dans la bouche, et en permanence tous les gqrme\u003e qui peuvent pro- duire la fièvre typhoïde, la suppuration,'la pneumonie, la tuberculose, la grippe, etc. Cep germes n'attendenat qu'une occasion favorable pour se fixer sur un organe de prédilection et y causer des ravages trop souvent mor- tels. . Le meilleur moyen de détruire cep germes si dangereux, c'est la propreté scrupuleuse de la bouche et de» fosses nasales. Ces soins de la bouche, on doit les pratiquer en tout temps, mais surtout en ces temps d'épidémie. Il y a dans lès pharmacies une foule d'excellentes préparations pour désinfecter la bouche et les fosses nasales. Nous n'en pignalerons que deux : l'eau oxygénée pour la bouche, et la pommade au mepthol pour le nez. A défaut de os choses, on devra se rincer la bouche très-souvent et très-largement avec de l'eau bouillie dans laquelle on aura fait dis- soudre de l'acide borique. La brosse à dets rendra d'inappréciable» services à la condition qu'efte soit tenue strictement propre. J.-O. PanIamS, M. D.",
         "a L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 131 SIR LOMER GOUIN CONTRE L'ÉCOLE NEUTRE UNE DÉCLARATION COURAGEUSE (1) Dimanche le 6 octobre dernier, avait lieu la bénédiction d'une jolie école à Locretteville, près Québec. Sir Lomer Gouin, accompagné du Surintendant de l'Instruction publique et de l'Inspecteur général des écoles catholiques, assistait à la cérémonie. A cette occasion, le Premier Ministre de notre province a prononcé un éloquent discours marqué au coin de la plus haute sagesse. M. Goumn, après avoir fait l'éloge des Frères des Ecoles chrétiennes, qui dirigent l'Académie de Loretteville, a parlé de la nécessité de l'enseignement religieux à l'école : \"La science, a dit Sir Lomer, c'est une bonne chose, une excellente chose; mai@ la science seule ne peut enseigner la vraie notion du devoir, ni donner la formation morale. A la science, il faut ajouter la religion, ou plutôt il faut appuyer la science sur la religion. La religion a donc sa place et une place d'honneur à l'école \". Voilà des paroles qui font honneur à notre Premier Ministre. On cite parfois de grands catholiques de France qui n'ont jamais mieux dit que M. Gouin au sujet de la nécessité de l'enseignement religieux dans les écoles. Nous devons donc féliciter hautement Sir Lomer Gouin d'avoir parlé avec tant de noble fermeté à Loretteville. Au moment où les ennemis de l'école confessionnelle se préparent à livrer un assaut formidable au régime scolaire de la province de Québec, il fait bon entendre un homme de la valeur et du prestige de Sir Lomer Gouin se prononcer carrément en faveur de l'enseignement religieux à l'école et partant contre l'école neutre. Et il convient que notre Premier Ministre soit chaleureusement félicité pour sa noble attitude, si con- forme aux traditions de la province de Québec. UN Tgmou. FRANCAIS FLEURS CUEILLIES DANS LE JARDIN DE LA PRESSE (Suite) 1. Voici un pléonasme admissible en certains cas, comme d'autres pléonasmes, mais dont on abuse chez nous : \"Noire littérature cana- dienne, nos orateurs canadiens, notre clergé canadien \" etc. Avons-nous donc aussi une littérature, des orateurs, un clergé anglais, améicain, eto? Disons par conséquent : Notre littérature, ou la littérature canadienne, etc. 2. \"Il est annoncé que, etc.-Cet impersonnel passif, si fréquent M RapsEdilt de 1s4VM*. de 12 octobre 191. um",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE dans les journaux, est bien anglais. Pourquoi pas On annonce si français et fait exprès pour désigner l'impersonnel ? Le passii est souvent lourd, en français. 3. \" Le Théatre est réouvert :\" Il faut dire réouverture, mais rouvrir. \" Les classe. sont rouvertes.\" On écrit de même \"rapprendre\", \"rajuster\", \"raffermir\", et non \"réapprendre\", \"réajuster\", \"réafermir\". Par contre, on dit bien: \" réaffirmer\", \" réajourner \", \" réapparaître \". 4. \" A bonne heure \" : Néologisme qui n'est pas encore dans les dictionnaires. Eerivez \"de bonne heure\". qui a toujours été français, et coxdtinue \"a l'être, même exclusivement 5. \" 11-10-18 \": devinette qui signifie : 11 octobre 1918, et qui nous vient, comme en plus, en plus de, quatre par six, et autres fantai- sies, de la littératui c financière. 6. Une autre mode, où perce une vanité amusante, consiste à s'affubler de tous ses prénoms, au long, ou en initiales. On écrit d'ailleurs celles-ci à la façon américaine, c.-à-d. sans trait d'union. Si l'on pratique l'initialomanie, il faut, au moins, écrire : J.-A., J.-E.-O., etc. En France, on porte ur nom et un prénom : Paul Bourget, Réné Basin, sans abré- viation. 7. \" La question a été solutionnée, au lieu de résolue. Solution, résoudre, sont les beaux mots français, résultat de la lente transforma- tion du latin (solvere, solutum, solutio), mais solutionner est un vilain champignon, né un beau matin en tee barbare. Imagines qu'on dise aussi absolutionner, résolutionner 1 8. Semi-mensuel, pour bi-mensuel. Semi signifie demi: bis, deux fois. et mensuel, une fois par mois. On a donc tort d'appeler aemi- mensuelle une publication qui parait deux fois par mois. C'est bi-men- auelle qu'il faut dire. Semi-mensuel désignerait un périodique publié tous les deux mois, puisque ce serait la demie, ou la moitié, de mensuel, non le double. Il en est ainsi de semi-hebdomadaire, semi-quotidien. On emploie ces expressions à contre-sens pour désigner des feuilles qui paraissent deux fois par semaine ou deux fois par jour. L'une signifie toutes les deux semaines, et l'autre tous les deux jours. 9. De beaucoup, pour beaucoup, bien, fort, très. De beaucoup n'est légitime qu'avec les verbes d'excellence, c'-à-d. qui marquent une supériorité, comme surpasser, l'emporter sur. Ex : Jeanne l'emporte de beaucoup sur Cécile par son talent. Il est mauvais d'écrire des phrases comme celles-ci : \" La prospérité du Canada a augmenté de beaucoup\"; \" Atoinete est plus savante que Germaine de beaucoup \". Augmenter n'est pas un verbe de supériorité, et savant est un adjectif. On dit : \" La prospérité a grandement augmenté\", \" Antoinette est bien plus savante.\" Abbé N. DEGAGNi. (d ouir)",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE L'INSTRUCTION OBLIGATOIRE Cette question est de nouveau à l'ordre du jour. Voici ce que Guisot disait de l'instruction obligatoire en 18r, alors que Duruy, ministre de l'Instruction publique de France, à la fin du second empire, proposait cette mesure au Corps législatif: \"L'obligation légale de l'instruction, dit Guisot, est une intervention dans le domaine de la famille, une limitation imposée, une contrainte apportée à l'autorité paternelle ... . J'ai peu de goût en général pour une telle intervention... la loi intervient quelquefois pour réprimer les abus graves de l'autorité paternelle, non pour imposer à l'autorité paternelle ses devoirs... que sera-ee, ajouta-t-il, si dans un grand Etat de grands et répétés évnements ont amené entre les familles de grands dissentiments religieux et politiques ? L'instruction primaire obligatoire deviendra alors une exigence tyrannique ; elle contraindra les parents ou bien à envoyer leurs enfants dans des écoles publiques qui n'auront pas leur confiance, ou bien à voir les inspecteurs de l'Etat entrer dans les familles pour s'assurer que l'instruction primaire y est en effet donnée. Et remarquez que, dans la plupart des communes, il n'y a qu'une école pimaire, ce qui rendra la contrainte bien plus fåcheuse et bienplus difficile à éviter (1).\"1 Cette opinion du protestant Guisot, ancien ministre de l'Instruc-. tion publique au tempe de Louis-Philippe (1832-36) mérite d'être méditée. C.-J. M. POUR LE PROGRES PEDAGOGIQUE Ac une séancede Co niion centae de écoles catholique@ de Montréal, il a été accordé, dsr propostion du confirness Lafontaine, un octroi de 81,500. destiné à maintenir l'oeuvre du conféreces po ques instituées à l'Université Laval et à l'Ecole d'Ensei- Penent Supérisur des Soeurs de la Congrégtion Notre-Dame. le DSon du 7 octobre a publié un projet de programme et reglement concernant ces conféren pédagogiques. Il y est dit: \"Avec l'appui de la Comnison centrale des Ecoles catholiques de Montréal, l'Uni- versité laval inaugure cette année un cours régulier de pégadogie à l'intention des mattres et maltrerses de l'ensgement primnire. Elle désire procurer aux instituteurs des deux \" la Perspective de Parch'minn et de primes à conquérir, un stimulant de premier Puisle projet expseebut duo , durée, son programme (trois ans); aussi les exanmens et parchemins (sanction du cours),' la liste des profemsura, etc. Nous espérons que ce projete réalisera non seulement à Montréal, mais aussi à Québe e, siège de l'Univ\"rté LavI, et souhaitons que le Comité catholique du Conseil de l'Instruc- tion publique soit au plus tôt invité à sanctione m haute autoté une initiative si pleine de promesse dont le but est de \"perfectionner la formation pagoique chma lu rofesseurs de notre enseignement primaire, tant religieux que lalques, tant anglais que français.\" (1) Voir Joma d a 6 mal 1805. Cité par de la Gorce, Histoire du Second Empire, volume IV. pa» 282. m um",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE ASSOCIATION D'ÉDUCATION DU CANADA (DoMuaoN E DUCAT1ONAL AssOCzfTSor) La réuion de l'Association d'Education du Canda (DoWWrm EduSt~ind Aasoew\"«om se tiendra le 6 du courat à Ottawa. On y discutera sans doute de nouvea la question du Bureau fédéral d'Education ve Ecole Nationale. L'un du principaux sujota annoé, c'est celui de 'uniforsnité des manuels de classe pou tout le Canada\". A ce suke, DOMe lisons dans l'Educa*io,,ol Roeiew de Fredericton, N.-B., numéro d'octobre 1918: IlThe. inatter of uniform text books for the~ Dominion which wus rocetly discuud at the. fi ter. provincial conference of Maritime Province premiers, will be di.uued.\"1 Voilà Un Projet gros de conséquences et dont la réalisation porterait un coup droit à l'autonmie du Provinces, notamment à celle de Québec, on matière scolaire. Sachons défendre nos libertés: celle qu'on veut noue ravir, sou le fallacieux Prétexte de progrs, d'unité nationale, d'entente cordiale, de Patriotisme et d'inpérialisme, est la plus précius puisqu'elle n'attaque à l'Amn même de la famille, l'enfant. Depuis quatre ans, deb millions de vaillants soldats ont versé leur sang pour la défense de la liberté sur les champs de bataille de l'Europe. SeratSc on vain que ce sang aurait coulé ? et verrions-nous, la guerr terminée, se jeter à l'assaut dus lmieé scolaires de la province de Québec, ceux qui ont fait s bruymment PaMad de leurzèlc à vouloir défendre lus petites nationalités d'Europe menas dans leur vie même par les barbare. Allemands T A tout évènement, avec calme et fermeté, sachons repousser toutes les tentatives ; armons- nous de courage, car le siège sera rude et lus assiégante tenaces. APOSTOLAT DE L'ÉDUCATION NMMRAL D'UNE RE]TJRAITEC DONNéE A DESg PxOFE]SSEIYR PÂl LEC R. P. DARLIN, a. J. Maximesa: 1. L'enfant est un être naturellement imitant, il faut donc qu'il ait dans au maîtres des modèles qu'il puisse copier entièrement. 2. L'éducation se fait surtout par leu yeux : un extérieur bien réglé et bien ordonné inspire à l'enfant l'amour de la vertu et met l'ordre dans sa conscience. 3. Aimes les enfants, mais fuites qu'ils c'en aperçoivent, sans oublier de conserver les distances ; la confiance est à ce prix. 4. Le coeur de l'enfant est un Hum... donnez-lui un appui... toujours digne, toujours droit... 5. Le vrai mérite d'un mattre consiste* moins à aimer et à diriger les enfants reconnaissants et dociles qu'à supporter et à former les âmes difficiles. 6. La mission du surveillant consiste bien plus à prévenir et à empêcher les fautes qu'à les constater et à les réprimer.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 135 7. Empêcher une seule offense de Dieu est un prix suffisant payer le soin et le travail de toute une vie, fût-elle de cent ans Pour 8. Péché empêché, péché raeheté ! Qui ouvre le ciel à une \u0026me obtient pour soi un billet d'entrée, dit S. Augustin. 9. Ne punissez qu'à regret : une punition de moins, autant de gagné pour le respect et l'amour qui sont dûs à l'autorité et pour le contentement de l'enfant o 10. Que l'enfant sache que vous le suivez du regard ; mais ne parais- ses jamais douter ni de son innocence ni de son bon vouloir. 11. Respectez l'enfant et faites-lui concevoir un grand respect de lui-même, une sorte de fierté personnelle; c'est la sauvegarde de l'hon- neur et de la vertu. (Soyons distingués). 12. Donnes à l'enfant l'explication qu'il demande ; quand même il ne comprend pas, il est content et son esprit est en repos. 13. Il faut toujours être vrai avec l'enfant, sinon il ne saura plue distinguer le moment où il faut croire à la parole du maltre. 14. En élevant un enfant, songez à sa vieillesse et préoccupez-vous du jugement qu'il portera sur vous dans dix ans. 15. L'autorité ne me discute pas, elle s'impose ; l'autorité n'a pas de nom, elle revêt tous les maîtres de la même dignité, elle ne doit jamais avoir tort. Mais c'est le propre d'une \u0026me droite, et c'est un signe de force de savoir reconnattre une erreur et la réparer. 16. Inspirez à l'enfant un grand respect pour l'autorité ; pour cela commencez par le respecter vous-même : c'est l'élément principal de l'éducation. 17. Gardes toujours la mesure dans les menaces comme dans les promesses, autrement vous exposez l'autorité, vous pouvez la perdre entièrement. 18. Obstinez-vous à juger les enfanta bons pour les rendre tels; rien ne les portera à seconder vos désirs comme la confiance que vous leur témoignerez. 19. Il faut parfois inspirer de grandes craintes à l'enfant pour remuer les passions de son Ame. Ces grandes craintes font nattre les grandes vertus. 20. Pas nécessaire d'être sévère, il suffit d'être ferme et constant; mais il le faut pour fixer la mobilité de l'enfant et soutenir sa faiblesse. éu21. Développez les bons instincts de l'enfant et appliquez-vous à étouffer chaque vice sous la végétation de la vertu opposée ; c'est là véritablement élever l'enfant dans le vrai sens du mot. 22. N'acceptes qu'avec réserve les confidences de l'enfant et ne vous liez jamais par un secret absolu. 23. Mesures les capacités de l'enfant pour ne pas exiger de lui plus qu'il ne peut donner : vous vous y briseriez : ce serait détruire l'ouvre dans son principe.",
         "136 L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 24. Dées-vous de l'impatience du succès: elle est souvent injuste et conduit presque toujours au découragement. . 25. Le développement des ètres est imperceptible à l'heure pré- sente ; laissez donc le temps faire son ouvre et attendes patiemment le résultat des efforts de l'enfant. 26. L'obéissance n'a point de borne quand c'est le cour qui com- mande ; les chalnes d'or, dit un ancien, lient mieux les cœurs que ne font les chaines de fer. 27. La pierre de touche du dévouement à Dieu et de la pure cha- rité, c'est de faire du bien à ceux qui nous rendent la vie plus pénible : nous ne sommes pas au milieu des enfants pour jouir de leur reconnais- sance et de leurs bonnes qualités, mais pour les rendre meilleurs. J. DiIN, S. J. L'ENSEIGNEMENT RELIGIEUX DANS LES ECOLES D'APRÈs LE NOUVEAU CODE DE DROIT CANONIQUE Canon 1372.-1. Tous les fidèles doivent être, dès l'enfance, ins- truits de telle sorte que non seulement on ne leur enseigne rien de con- traire à la religion catholique et à l'honnêteté des mœurs, mais que l'ins- truction religieuse et morale ait la première place dans l'enseignement. 2. Non seulement les parents, mais aussi tous ceux qui tiennent leur place ont le droit et le devoir le plus strict de veiller à l'éducation chrétienne des enfants. Canon 1373.-i. Dans toute école élémentaire, l'instruction reli- gieuse doit être donnée aux enfants, suivant leur Age. 2. Que la jeunesse qui fréquente les écoles secondaires et supé- rieures reçoive un enseignement doctrinal religieux plus complet, et que les Ordinaires des lieux veillent à ce que cela se fasse par des prêtres pleins de zèle et de science. Canon 1374.-Que les enfants catholiques ne fréquentent pas les écoles non catholiques, neutres, mixtes, ouvertes aussi à des non catholi. ques. Il appartient à l'Ordinaire du lieu, seul, de décider, d'après les ins- tructions du Siège apostolique, dans quelles conditions, et avec quelles précautions, pour éviter le danger de perversion, la fréquentation de ces écoles pourra être tolérée. Canon 1375.-A l'Eglise appartient le droit de fonder, à tous les degrés de l'enseignement, des écoles non seulement élémentaires, mais secondaires et supérieures. Canon 1376.-1. La constitution canonique d'une Université ou d'une Faculté catholique est réservée au Siège apostolique.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 137 2. Une Université ou une Faculté catholique, méme confiée à des ordres religieux quelconques, doit avoir ses statuts approuvés par le Siège apostolique. Canon 1377.- Personne ne peut conférer des grades académiques qui ont des effets canoniques dans l'Eglise, si ce n'est en vertu d'une per- mission concédée par le Siège apostolique. Canon 1379.-S'il y a manque d'écoles catholiques élémentaires ou secondaires, les Ordinaires des lieux principalement auront soin d'en fonder. De même, si les Universités publiques ne sont pas imbues de la doctrine et du sens catholiques, il est à désirer que dans la nation ou dans la région, une Université catholique soit fondée. Que les fidèles n'omettent pas d'apporter toute leur aide, suivant leurs ressources, à la fondation et à l'entretien des écoles catholiques. L'A MBE DUPUIS INAUGURE SON COURS DE MORALE AU CERCLE ROY (lWO1NTREAL) LES INSTITUTEURS DOIVENT ÉTRE DES HOMMES DE PROGni:s Nous lisons dans Le Canada du 28 septembre 1918: \" Hier soir, à l'Académie Commerciale du Plateau, \u003clevant les membres du Cercle Péda- gogique Roy, M. l'abbé Dupuis, Visiteur des Ecoles et aun:q'nier du Cercle, inaugurait ses cours de*Morale rour l'amée 1918,19. L'an dernier, le (onférenciera traité de laPsycho- logie, cette année le sujet à l'é,ude sera la Morale. La Psychologie doit précéder la Morale, car il est nécessaire de bien connatire l'horrme et sa nature, pour déeerminer sûrement ses devoirs. La Psychologie est la science complète de l'dm dans sa nature, ses facultés et ses actes. La Morale aussi étudie l'ae, mais à un point de %ue larticulier. Elle scrute l'activité volontaire et libre dans sa destinée et sa fin supreme, dans ses rapports obliga, oires avec le bien et I'honnéte qui lui Font imposés con me sujet de rigle de ses actions. On comprend facilement l'importance de cette partie de la Philosophie qui traite de l'ordre moral. Cet ordre en lui-même est le plus élevé, puisque l'héroismå de la.vertu est supérieur à l'éclat du génie. Il est aussi pour rhacun de nous le plus nécessaire: seul il peut réaliser notre perfectionnement véritable. Importante pour les individus, la Morale ne l'est pas moins pour les sociétés. C'est en gardant ses préceptes que les Eïats progressent et s'élèvent. C'est en les violant qu'ils s'abaissent et marchent à leur ruine. L'étude de la Morale est, enfin, d'autant plus importante que ses principes ont toujours à se défendre contre la fougue des passions, et sont en butte, de nos jours surtout, même en notre pays encore si chrétien, aux attaques les plus sournoises, et quelquefois aux tentatives les plus violentes et les plus effrontées. \" En matière d'éducation, c'est la morale qui est la base. Que ces assises soient vrai- ment inébranlables I et ensuite ne craignons pas le progrès, le vrai progrès. Le conférencier salue avec joie et confiance, les efforts multiples qui s'accomplissent, en certains milieux, pour améliorer nos méthodes d'enseignement. Le programme d'études devrait être simplifié, puis intensifié dans ses matières principales. Il faut que nos enfants fréquentent plus long. temps l'école, et qu'on les applique davantage aux choses pratiques de la vie. On doit nourrir ches eux l'ambition légitime d'occuper dignement les premières places dans les différentes carrières qu'ils choisiront. A cet effet, qu'ils poursuivent leurs études dans nos. écoles supérieures Si complètement outillées. Ils trouveront là une prparation et une forma- tion que nos grands-pères, même nos pères avaient à peine soupçonnées. Mais pour tout. 2",
         "138 LENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE cela, une condition est essentielle, c'est le travail. Le goût du travail intellectuel : voilà ce qui manque le plus à notre jeunesse. Sachons le lui inculquer par nos préceptes et aussi, disons-le bien haut, par nos propres exemples. Le travail est un hôte un peu gênant d'abord, mais il devient bientôt, si on lui fait bon accueil, notre meilleur ami. Et le confé- rencier cite le vers célèbre du poète qui, faisant le bilan de ses joies et de ses goûts, s'écriait dans une de ses pages immortelles : Jours de travail, seuls jours où j'ai vécu 1 \"Le but du Cercle pédagogique Roy est de cultiver, chez ses membres, le goût et l'amour du travail. Que l'instituteur se spécialise dans la matière qu'il enseigne, c'est un devoir de stricte justice. Qu'il ne perde aucune occasion d'améliorer sa culture générale, c'est la perfection. Les instituteurs préparent l'avenir : ils doivent être des hommes de progrès.\" PÉDAGOGIE EN ACTION Compares les deux manières d'agir. 1. Un élève arrive en clas- s. après l'heure Le maitre.-Vous arrivez trop tard, A... L'élève.-M., ma mère.. . Le mattre (l'interrompant) : Il faut arriver à l'heure ; si cela vous arrive encore, gare à vos oreilles ! !! 2. Un élève n'a pas fait son devoir. Le mattre.-Votre devoir. B.. L'élève. - Monsieur, il m'a été impossible de le faire ; j'ai dû aider mon père. Le mattre (d'un air courroucé).- Vous le ferez pendant la récréation. 3. Le Jeune C.. n'est pas attentif, malgré plusieurs avertissements. Le mettre (vivement).-C., venez ici, restez là dans ce coin ! (Le jeune C... reste deux heures debout dans un coin de la classe). 4. D.. est distrait, boudeur et entité. Le mattre.-D., qu'ai-je dit en dernier lieu?... Répondez, répondes, vous dis-je 1! (Silence de l'élève.) Après la classe, vous écrirez cent fois : \"Je suis distrait et entêté\". 1. Un élève arrive en classe après l'heure. Le mattre.-Pourquoi venez-vous trop tard, A...? L'élève.-Monsieur, ma mère a dû sortir et m'a fait rester près de mon petit frère. Le matre.-Nous verrons ; asseyez-vous. (Le maUtre prend des informations). 2. Un élève n'a pas fait son devoir. Le matre.-Pour quelle raison n'avez-vous pas fait votre devoir, B.,. ? L'élève.-Monsieur, il m'a été impossible de le faire, j'ai dû aider mon père. Le maître.-Dites-vous la vérité? L'élève.-Oui, Monsieur. Le mattre.-Vous le ferez donc avec celui d'au- jourd'hui pour demain? L'élève.-Oui, Monsieur. 3. Le Jeune C.. n'est pas attentif, naligr6 plusieurs avertissements. Le maître l'appelle à lui.-Voulez-vous me forcer à vous punir malgré moi?-Non, Monsieur.-Vous reconnaissez qu'il faut s'instruire?-Oui, Monsieur. -Donc, vous serez attentif ?-Oui, Monsieur.- J'y compte, retournez à votre place. 4. D.. est distrait, boudeur et entêté. Le maître, allant près de lui.-Est-ce pour vous ou pour moi que je me donne des peines? Est-ce pour mon bien-être ou pour le vôtre que je parle tant, que j'étudie et que je travaille?-C'est pour moi, M...-Du moment que vous le reconnaissez franchement, tout est oublié, et je compte sur votre bonne volonté. Fa. G.",
         "a L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE TRIBUNE PEDAGOGIQUE Le calcul mmnta-itaig son mporte, le calcul mental n'est pas encore prati- qué autant qu'il le faudrait. on étudie théoriquement une quantitéde menue procédés, mais on n'arrive guère au vrai calcul mental, celui que fait le Paysan sur le marché ou le commer- çant dans sa boutique. C'est pourtant là le but et on ne saurait l'atteindre qu'à force d'en- trainement. A condition de joindre la pratique à la théorie et de se mettre, selon un mot devenu célèbre, dans un bain de réalisme, le calcul mental sera ce qu'il doit être, non seule- ment une chose utile entre toutes, mais une excellente gymnastique intellectuelle. Ajoutons que, s'il a sa place spéciale dans l'emploi du temps, il peut se mtler incidemment à tout exercice d'arithmétique et qu'il faut habituer les élèves à ne jamais résoudre par écrit au tableau noir ou sur le cahier une opération qui, simplifiée ou non, peut être faite mentalement Enseignement pratquenL'eeignement pratique est celui qui tend à atteindre le but pour lequel l'enfant fréquente l'école. Or l'enfant est à l'école pour faire son éducation morale, intellectuelle et physique. Chacune de nos leçons doit donc élever son \u0026de, cultiver son ceur et former son caractère, en un mot, rendre l'enfant meilleur. Mais à côté de cet idéal, vient se placer un autre but : l'école doit préparer le jeune élève à la vie Matérielle et à ses exigences. Et c'est vers ce but surtout que doivent être dirigées nos leçons pour que notre enseignement soit vraiment pratique. Il faut que notre enseignement sorte du domaine de la théorie pour entrer dans l'arene de la vie, afin de préparer l'enfant à ce qui l'attend au sortir de l'atmosphère chaude de la classe; et c'est damn ce ae surtout que l'on dit que l'enseignement est pratique. Etudions le caractère des enfants.-La louange excite et encourage, mais, ai elle est trop fréquente,faite avec peu de ménagement, elle inspire delavanité et de la présomp- tion. tUs enfants portent en eux les principes, comme les semences de toutes les vertus et de tous les vices : la bonne culture fera fructifier l'un ou l'autre. L'adresse est de bien étudier leur caractère, de s'appliquer à connatre leur humeur, leur pente, leus talents, et surtout de découvrir leurs défauts et leurs inclinations dominantes, non dans le but de s'en servir pour en causer, mais dans l'espoir de réagir pour les corriger. CHRONIQUE JUDICIAIRE La Cour d'Appel de Montréal a confirmé en 1917 un jugement important de la Cour Supérieure dont voici la substance u lo.-\"L'entrepreneur, dans la défense à une action pour réfection des travaux qu'il a faits à une maison d'école, ainsi que dans se réponse au plaidoyer d'une action qu'il a intentée lui-même contre une commission scolaire pour le solde de ce qui lui est da, ne peut alléguer aucun fait de nature à faire croire que, ai ses travaux n'ont pas été acceptés ni payés, cela est dû aux manouvres criminelles et illicites de certains commissaires d'écoles auxquels il a refusé de payer des pots-de-vin. 2;o.-Par une simple \"Inscription en droit\" (1), ces allégations peuvent être rejetées, de telle sorte que le juge renvoie la procédure qui les contient, s permettre la preuve. Dans cette cause, l'appelant était un nommé Pion et les intimés étaient les Commisaires d'écoles pour la municipalité scolaire de 8t-Stanislas. Montréal, Voici le faits tels qu'ils se sont présentée. (1) L\"'lnaedption en droit\" est nue pOouidure \u0026 laquelle on recourt pou fire renvoyer un. autre proaedurs dont la conclusion n'est pue JutiSie par las primusu., c'eat-\"-ire, par lis fate alle.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE Le 24 mai 1912, les commissaires avaient adjugé régulièrement à l'entrepreneur Piun une eni reprise au prix de 96,300 pour réparations et améliorations aux bâtisses appartenant à la municipalité scolaire de St-Stanislas, suivant plans et devis. Les travaux furent commencés dès 1912. En décembre 1913, les commissaires inten- tèrent en Cour Supérieure une première action contre Pion, prétendant, entre autres choses, que celui-ci était en retard pour la livraison des travaux, que l'ouvrage était mal exécuté, sans conformité avec les stipulations du devis ; et ils concluaient leur action en demandant que l'entrepreneur fût forcé par la Cour de refaire l'ouvrage mal fait et de parachever immé- diatement l'entreprise, ou que les commissaires fussent autorisés à corriger et à compléter eux-mêmes les travaux aux frais de l'entrepreneur. A cette action, l'entrepreneur Pion répondit en substance ce qui suit : \"Si mon ouvrage n'est pas accepté et si je ne suis pas encore payé, cela est dû uniquement aux machinations et aux manoeuvres illicites et criminelles dont se sont rendus coupables envers moi quelques- uns des commissaires ; ces commissaires m'ont offert leur appui, moyennant une récom- pense de 83,000. pour faire adopter par la Commission scolaire une résolution autorisant le paiement de la balance qui m'est due ; ils m'ont ensuite menacé de toutes les obstructions en leur pouvoir, si je refusais de leur verser cette somme. Or, comme j'ai refusé de payer ce pot-de-vin et comme j'ai intenté à ces commissaires devant les tribunaux criminels un procès qui est encore pendant, je suis depuis lors en butte à toutes les obstructions dont ils m'ont menacé ; et voilà pourquoi je ne suis pas encore payé\". Les commissaires inscrivirent en droit contre ces allégations en soumettant à la Cour qu'elles étaient absolument inutiles et étrangères au débat, d'autant plus que le contrat avait créé des rapports de droit entre Pion et la Commission scolaire de St-Stanislas, non entre Pion et les commissaires pris individuellement. La Cour a donné raison aux com- missaires, comme on le voit dans le résumé du jugement précité. Pour rendre sa position encore meilleure devant la Cour, l'entrepreneur Pion, tout en répondant à l'action des commissaires, avait intenté lui-même contre ces derniers une autre action basée sur un certificat de l'architecte,en réclamation du solde de son compte. De part et d'autre, les raisons alléguées au cours de l'action, du plaide.yer, de la réponse et de la réplique furent les mêmes que dans la première cause; le jugement fut aussi le même. Appelée à se prononcer sur ce cas, la Cour d'Appel confirma sur tous leurs points ces deux jugements de la Cour Supérieure. Il faut bien comprendre, ici, que les tribunaux de la Cour Supérieure et de la Cour d'Appel, dans leurs jugements, n'ont aucunement sanctionné la légitimité des pots-de-vin : ils ont simplement voulu dire que la demande de pots-de-vin par quelques-uns des commis- saires d'écoles ne constitue pas une présomption suffisante que la Commission a été influen- oée pour donner ouverture au droit réclamé. Euo. L'HEunEux, Avocat. METHODOLOGIE LA RÉDACTION A LA PETITE ÉCOLE Le mattre s'adresse aux élèves à tour de rôle, ne permettant jamais à plusieurs de répondre ensemble. M -Que représente cette image? E -Elle représente un pécheur. M.-Vous voyez autre chose, je suppose. E -Je vois sa chaloupe, sa ligne, son panier.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 141 M.-A quoi la ligne est-elle fixée? E.-Elle est fixée à la perche. M.-Il faut dire canne à péche, et non pas perche ; on dit aussi une gaule pour le manche d'une ligne de peche ; sur l'image c'est plutôt une gaule qu'une canne, car elle est longue. Comment appelle-t-on le petit crochet d'acier qui est au bout de la ligne et qui sert à prendre le poisson? E.-On appelle cela un in. M.-In n'est pas un mot français ; il doit se trouver un élève qui connait le vrai nom de ce petit instrument de péche? E.-C'est un hameçon. M",
         "142 L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE M -Hameçon est le seul nom qu'on donne à ce petit instrument. Voyez-vous l'hameçon? E.- Non, M., le pécheur l'a dans la main. M.-Voyez-vous quelque chose d'attaché à la ligne, au-dessous de la main du pécheur ? E.-C'est une cale pour enfoncer la ligne dans l'eau. M.-Une cale est un morceau de bois ou de fer, une pierre plate que l'on met sous un objet pour l'empècher de glisser, pour l'appuyer ; et le petit morceau de fer ou de plomb attaché à une ligne pour la faire descendre dans l'eau est un plomb. On se sert d'un plomb, quand on pèche de fond. Comment appelle-t-on le morceau de bois ou de liège qui fait flotter la ligne? E.-On appelle cela une flotte. M -C'est le nom ; on se sert de flotte pour pécher à la ligne flot- tante. Qu'appelez-vous mouche comme instrument de peche? E -C'est un hameçon entouré d'une petite plume lui donnant l'apparence d'une mouche. M -Y a-t-il d'autres instruments de pèche ? E -Il y a le filet, la nasse, le verveux. M.-Tous ces instruments prennent plus de poissons à la fois, mais n'offrent pas le plaisir de la pèche à la ligne. Simon va nous dire le nom de cette espèce de clôture de branchages ou de lattes qu'on établit sur la grève pour retenir le poisson? E.-C'est une pèche ; notre voisin en a tendu une sur le bord du fleuve. M.-Votre voisin n'a pu tendre une pèche, car le mot pèche désigne l'action de pécher ; aller à la peche ; il s'entend aussi du résultat de la pèche ; faire une bonne pèche, prendre beaucoup de poissons. Votre voisin a établi une pècherie au moyen d'une bordigue. Une pècherie est un lieu où l'on pèche ; c'est aussi un endroit préparé spécialement pour la pèche ; une bordigue est une enceinte de claies au fond de laquelle on met une nasse ou un verveux, espèces de paniers coniques servant à emprisonner le poisson. Examinez bien le pécheur, Emile, et dites-nous ce qu'il fait. E.-Il tient un petit poisson d'une main et de l'autre il retire l'ha- meçon. M.-Observez bien, et vous verrez qu'il fait autre chose? E.-En effet, il parle au poisson. M.-Que semble-t-il lui dire? E.-Il semble lui dire : \"Tu es bien petit pour que je te mette dans mon panier ; autant vaudrait te jeter à l'eau et te laisser profiter plus tard je te pécherai.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 143 M.-Pensez-vous qu'il va agir ainsi? E.-Je ne le pense pas. M.-Pourquoi? E-Il va se raviser, 'apercevant que c'est plus sûr de le garder tel qu'il est que d'attendre qu'il soit gros. M.-Cette image ne vous rappelle-t-elle pas une fable de La Fontaine? E.-Elle pourrait illustrer la fable * \"Le petit poisson et le pécheur\". M.-Qu'est-ce que le fabuliste fait dire au poisson? E.-Il dit que le pcheur n'en fera qu'une demi bouchée ; et qu'il en tirera double profit, s'il le laisse devenir carpe. M.-Pour donner de la vie et de l'intérêt au récit, que fait La Fontaine ? E.-Il prête la parole au poisson, qu'il dénomme carpeau. M.-Qu'est.ce qu'un carpeau ? E.-Un carpeau est une jeune carpe. M.-Comment l'appelle-t-il encore? E.-Il l'appelle encore carpillon. M.-Que signifie ce dernier nom? E.- Il a la même signification que carpeau. M --Au nom carpillon, le Dictionnaire dit très jeune carpe. Le diminutif ilion a le même sens que le diminutif eau. Quel nom La Fontaine emploie-t-il, au commencement de la fable, E-our dire que c'est un poisson trop petit pour valoir la peine d'être pris? E.-Je suppose que c'est le mot fretin qu'il a employé dans ce sens. M. Le nom fretin a-t-il un autre sens? E.-... M.-Le nom fretin signifie d'abord choses de rebut, insignifiantes; puis, menu poisson. D'après la fable, que fait le carpeau pour être laché? E.-Il parle avec éloquence *\"Laisse-moi carpe devenir. Je serai par vous repêchée: Quelque gros partisan me payera bien cher.\" M.-Le pcheur se laisse-t-il prendre à l'appât du lucre, c'est-à-dire de la richesse, de l'argent? E.-Non, M. M.-Quelle passion veut-il flatter, lorsque le carpeau parle du plat qui ne vaut rien, et du beau plat qu'il offrira, étant devenu carpe? E.-Il essaie de flatter la gourmandise du pécheur. M -Que répond le pêcheur à toutes ces tentatives? E.-Il répond qu'il fera frire le carpillon. M.-Comment se montre le pêcheur? E.-I se montre sage, aimant mieux se contenter de ce qu'il a que de courir des risques. M.-En effet, rien n'est moins sûr que de repêcher un poisson. I.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE Citez le proverbe qui est la morale de cette fable et dont nous pouvons faire notre profit? E.-\"Un tiens vaut mieux que deux tu l'auras.\" L'un est sûr, l'autre ne l'est pas\". M.-Maintenant, vous avez une bonne idée de l'image, faites une composition, en vous inspirant de l'apologue de La Fontaine. Relisez-la encore pour vous aider ; mais gardez-vous de traduire mot à mot en écrivant les vers en prose, c'est-à-dire en détruisant seulement les inver- sions. Faites plutôt une rédaction d'après l'image qu'une traduction de la fable. LE PÊCHEUR ET LE PETIT POISSON Le pécheur Michel est bien à l'endroit du lac où d'ordinaire il fait de bonnes pèches. Il n'a point amarré son canot de bois : une touffe de joncs le retient. Il pèche depuis une heure, et le panier est presque vide, pourtant la ligne est bien amorcée, et la température favorable. Impatienté, nerveusement il lève la gaule, tire la ligne, arrache l'appàt, passe l'hameçon dans le corps d'un ver de terre tout luisant, tout frétillant. \" Cette fois, se dit-il, ça mordra bien \". Aussitôt la ligne lancée, il la sent vivement agitée. \" Ah ! ah ! fait-il, c'est un gros qui mord, c'est sûr \". Il tire..., à sa grande surprise, c'est un carpillon qui se démène au bout de sa ligne. Pour un pécheur comme lui, prendre un si petit poisson... Il est tenté de le lancer à l'eau, mais il se ravise : \" Il comptera pour un comme les autres \". Et si le carpeau pouvait parler, il ne manquerait pas de dire: Michel, que feras-tu d'un si petit poisson? laisse-moi profiter, tu me repècheras et me vendras bien cher \". Mais ce discours n'aurait point d'effet sur le vieux pècheur qui connaît le proverbe : \"Un tiens vaut mieux que deux tu l'auras: l'un est sûr, l'autre ne l'est pas\". NÊRÉE TREMBLAY, Professeur. ANALYSE LITTERAIRE Anecdote racontée par Ernest Gagnon. Pagea choisies p. 56 citée dans le Cours de littérature des Sours de la Congrégation N.-D., 7e et Se année, p. 63. Modèle de narration.-Sujet : une soirée à Paris, dans la chambre de M. Ernest Gagnçn, de Québec. Amis canadiens. On cause, natu- rellement, du Canada, et l'on bâtit des reves de jeunesse. C'est en 1857. Ce que l'on ferait si le Canada était encore à découv.ir ! Chacun prend parti suivant l'humeur du moment. \"Parbleu ! dii le dernier, l'abbé Légaré, j'irais le découvrir 1\" Et tout le monde, sur cette boutade imprévue, de s'embarquer avec enthousiasme pour la fondation de Québec. mi",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 145 Ce court récit est un chef-d'ouvre de sobriété et de finesse au bien que d'intérêt et d'inattendu. La pensée de la patrie absente ei remplit et s'y produit de la façon la plus gaie et la plus originale. le caractère de chaque interlocuteur se montre à merveille dans son projet fictif : l'apostolat chez l'abbé Hamel, les affaires chez M. Perrault, l'étude chez l'abbé Beaudet, l'art chez l'auteur du récit : MJe songeai a la mélodieuse Italie...\". Cette délicieuse phrase évoque avec intensité toute la carrière musicale et littéraire de M. Gagnon. Et le reste du morceau est non moins caractéristique, pour quiconque a connu l'écrivain: esprit, vivacité, pittoresque, alliés à une distinction et à un goût achevés. Je note les expressions * \"étudier jusqu'à ce que diplôme s'en- suive \", les \" vocations cessant de s'éparpiller \" \" ce navire ... qui n'a jamais navigué \". Mais ce style est fait d'un tissu qui échappe à l'analyse. u uq cp CAUSERIE ET LEQONS DE CHOSES QU'EST-CE QUE LA ROSÉE ? En été, lorsque la nuit approche et que tombe la fraîcheur, de gros- ses gouttes de rosées apparaissent quelquefois, suspendues aux toiles d'araignées tendues entre deux arbres; elles forment une des curiosités de la nature. Ces petites perles d'eau semblent bien naturelles et bien simples, et, pourtant il a fallu des siècles aux savants, pour trouver ce qu'elles sont en réalité ; ils trouvèrent alors que la rosée est une par- tie de quelque ehose de très important. Il y a dans l'air une grande quantité d'humidité, qui rafraîchit les rayons du soleil, de telle sorte qu'ils ne puissent pas nous brer lors des grandes chaleurs de l'été. Pendant la nuit, la terre, sortie de la lumière du soleil, laisse s'échapper toute la chaleur qu'elle a accu- mulée pendant la journée, et l'humidité oblige cette chaleur à sortir lentement. Si elle ne le faisait pas, la terre deviendrait tout à coup si froide que nous péririons gelés dans l'espace d'une seule nuit d'été. Eh bien, le soir, quand des rayons de chaleur commenent à sortir de la terre, l'air humide les absorbe, et l'atmosphère devient plus chaude que la terre, les herbes et les fleurs d'où s'échappe la chaleur. Puis, le refroidissement graduel d a la terre, des herbes et des fleurs abaisse la température de l'air où la vapeur d'eau se condense, et lus feuilles des arbres, les brins d'herbe, les toiles d'araignées en retien- nent les gouttelettes qui tombent sous forme de petites perles. C'est la rosée. 8",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE SUJET DE COMPOSTION bd. l'Inspecteur a fait la visite de l'école. Il a adress à la maitresse du )ieOsg. lui a donnA, dues elsa et du emereeiet lui a tit assi quelques rmovise bienvsillaatu.-L'intitutries, lui écrit quelques Jours \u0026Près au sujet de cette visite. Paire sa lalr.- CORRGÊ Monsieur l'Inspecteur, Permettez-moi de vous écrire ces quelques lignes à l'occasion de la visite que wota venez de faire à mon école. Vos notes contiennent à mon adresse des félicitations, des conseils et des remarques. Je vous remercie sincèrement des tane et des autres. Les félicitations sont, sans doute, dues à votre bienveillance, pour la plus grande part. J'ai conscience. néanmoins, de m'être appliquée, et je ne vous cacherai pas que ces éloges, pour exceuâis qu'ils soient peut-être, m'ont procuré de la ratfrfaction et m'ont incitée à mieux faire encore à l'avenir. J'aurai pour m'y aider, Monsieur l'nspecteur, les conseils judicieux que vous avez bien voulu me donner. Ces avis seront précieux à mon âge et à mon inexpérience. Je m'enpres- serai de les suivre, afin de faire disparaître les imperfections que vous avez auss constatées dans mon enseignement. Je vous suis bien aise, Monsieur l'Inspecteur, de ces remarques mêmes que vous n'avez pas craint de me faire dans mon intérêt et dans celui de ra classe. Daignez agréer, Monsieur l'Inspecteur, avec mes remerciements, l'expression du dévouement et de la soumission avec lesquels j 'ai l'honneur d'être, Votre humble servante, N.-D. LEÇON D'ANGLAIS D'APR£S LA MÉTHODE NATURELLE How many persona are to, be seen in the ffrst picture ? In the firat picture one person la to be seen. What ie the person to be seen in the firet picture ? The person to be seen ini the firet picture i. a boy. Io he standing or sitting ? He ie standing. What bas he in bis hands ? He bas a fisbing-rod in bie handa. Io it a costly fisbing-rod ? No, it je flot a coatly fiahing-rod. What kind of fisbing-rod je it ? It je a long, siender, branch of a tree. Did he buy it, do you think ? No, I dont think that he bought it. How did he get it, do *you suppose ? I suppose, be made it by cutting it fromn a tree, after which he eut off any amail twige that were growing front it. Fastened to, an end of the rod what je there ? There je a fisbing lime fsstened to, an end of the rod. To whieb end of the rod je the lime fastened ? It je faatened to, the emailer end of the rod.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE Could you give another answer to the Iast question ? Yes, I mlight Say, the lime ia faatened to the end of the rod farthest away from the boy. At the free end of the lime what is there ? At the free end of the line there is water. If the boy were to rMise the rod oufficiently to bave the free end of the Unme dangling above the water, what would you see ? If you please, sir, I dont know what I would se Can't you suppose or imagine bomething that you might mee? Oh, là, if it la a question of imagination, I ean imagine many wonderful things that i might see. I arn not aaking You to imagine something wonderfui ; I wigh you to Bay what* ie generally seen at the end1 of a fiahing Unme. Weil, I suppose ëffl",
         "148 L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE I would aee a fiah-hook ; in that what you want me to aay ? Yen, that ie exactly what I wanted you to say. On the fiah-hook what would you sen ? I suppose I would see bait. What is bait ? Bait in anytbing which, put on a fish-hook, wil tempt fish to bite. You are perfectly right ; the word hait and the word bite have the sme root ; it means to cause Io bite. How in the boy holding the rod ? Be in holding it with both banda. That in flot the answer to my question. If that in flot an answer to your question, what in it an answer to ? ît i. an answer to the question: \"with what is the boy holding the rod ?\" I aee, air, how will this answer do ? He is holding it with the amaller end slightly raised or elevated. That will do very well, indeed. The boy in standing where ? He in standing on the shore of a laite or river. With the boy what is there ? There in a dog with the boy. On whicb aide of the boy in the dog ? It is on bie right aide. Describe the dog'a pose. It is aitting up supported by its forepaws. What is it watching ? It in watching the water. Io it watebing ail the water ? No, it in watching the water at the point wbere the fish-book is. Instead, of the word poit, what other word maight you have used ? I might have used the word spot. What is the dog looking at ? It ia looking at the spot where the fish-hook in. Use an adverb to qualify the words tvatching or looking. Il in attentively watching, etc ; or, it in looking attentively at, etc. In the second picture, wbere in the boy'a bat ? It is floating on the water. What part of the bat ia in the water ? The crown of. the bat in ini the water. Wbat part of the bat in out of the water ? The brim of the bat is out of the water. What sort of brim bas the hat ? It bas a broad brim. Where ia the boy ? Be is in the water. Ia he ail in the water ? No, be la not ai in tbe water. Wbat part of the boy ia not in the water ? Bis head from bis chia up in out of the water. In what direction is his face turned ? It ia turned towards the land. Wbere in the dog, ? It is in tbe water tee. la the dog as deep in the water as tbe boy ? No, it is not 80 deep in tbe water as tbe boy. Why la it not se deep in the water as tbe boy ? I dont't know; perhaps it ia because tbe dog can awim. and tbe boy can't.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 149 How do you know that the dog can swim ? Ail animaie can swirn. Are you sure '? Yes, I ara positively sure of it. Can ail boys swim ? No, sir, boys cazI't ail swim. }Iow cornes it that animais can ail swirn and that boys can't ail swim ? I don't know how it cornes, as you say; animais swimn natu- rally, but boys have to learn it like everything else. What do you mean when you say that animales wim naturally ? I mean that they swim without being taught, without having to learn it. What in the dog doing ? It is swimming. In what direction is it swimrning ? It in swimniing towards the boy. lu the boy in the water nesr the sanie place where you saw him at first ? No, sir, he in flot ini the water near the place where 1 first saw him. Howý can you tell that he in flot in the water where you first saw him ? That is quite easy, air, where the boy in standing i the lirst picture there in no tree, while, ini the second picture, a good-aszed, tree in te be seen close te the water's edge. How do you account for the hat, the boy, and the dog being in the water ? It is easy te account for the bat snd the dog being in the water: the bat went i at the sme tirne as the boy, while the dog natu.sily foliowed its muter;- the boy's presence in the water js amystery beyond my knowledge. Can't you suppose what happened to the boy ? If you were te, aak me a meies of questions leading up te what you wish or expect me te suppose, I might perhapa suppose the right thing. Very good,I1wl try tohelp y0o ut Belp you.out\",' what do you mean sir, by \"help you out\"? Imean, help you out of hiour difficulUies. Oh, I understand, air, I arn i difficulties, and your questions wiII help m;e out of these 'dif. culties,' or help me' to get out of theee difficultiea ; in that right, sb ? Quite right, you are a clever lad. Doea clever mean emart ? Yes, it mean8sumart, bright,' intelligent, able, skilful, capable, ingenjous. Now for the questions. Can you explain why the boy in in the wster fer from the place where you ssw hirn fiahing. ? I suppose that he left the place where he origially was because fiah did not bite. After leaving the place where he was, wht do you irnagine did he do ? 1 imagine that he wandered along the shore till he came te a spot in the vicinity of the big free. Whst do you think did he then do ? I thin c then determine\u003cj te try hia luck once more. Whst, do you suppose, happeUed ? I suppose that he tbrew out",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE hie lino, and inanminute or two, while hie wau off bis guard, a big fiah swallowed book, sinkor, snd float and attompted to mako off. What thon took place ? The boy moade a dotermined effort to pull ini bis lime; in bis oxcitement, ho boot hie balanceo, feUl into the lako, and as hoe stiil held on to the rod, hie wau drawn eme distance out into doep water, before hoe recoverod bies enae enough to lot go. What did the dog do on ueeing usa master disappoar in the waters of the lako ? The faithful animal immediatoly plunged into the lake alter him ? What is it now doing ? It i. Wimming with ail its atrength to the rescue. Do you think it will reach hlm, beforo hoe goes down? I sincerely hope it wiIl. Dce. the boy look exhausted ? Ho does. If the dog reaches hinm i trne what will it do ? I have no doubt but that it will brig hlm safely to land. If the dog succeeds i bringing him to land, will ho b. in full posmes- ion of bis enes ? That I can't may, abr, I hope ho wiil, but I arn very doubtful of ht. J. AHERN. DOCUMENTS OFFICIELS BUREAU CENTRAL DES EXAMINATEURS CATHOLIQUES SE88ION DE JUIN II-.w DIPLÔàMS MODÈLNI ET.\u0026AÂIMIQUU MONTRÉAL Modèle frafflia.--Saiftamn :-Roy, Marie-Aime; Roy, M.-Alérie; LArivière. Cécile ; Bastien, Eva ; Champagne, Gennaine ; Ikveillée, Blandine ; Philippon, Jos.-Amédée; Beauregard, Napoléon ; Mercifle. Cécile ; Brassard, Antoinette ; Chevalier, Adiana ; Llmlnde Cécile; Lamarche, Georgette; Grenger, M.-A.-Maihilde; GMim, Joseph; Desparois, Lucile; Paquette, M.-Rose; Hogue, M.Yvonno; Charbonneau, Joséphine; Rancourt, Mice ; Gravel, Jeanne ; Circé, M.-Bernadette ; Côté, Judith ; (Iuimohd, M.-Déi-L4oni; L,éveillé, Gilberte; I âcau, Mfarie-Luciene; Pelletier, Florida; Bicci, M.-Anna-Antoi- nette ; Gieofirion, M.Roee,; Granger, Ida ; Lafortune, Blanche ; Ethier, Rose; Latour, M.- Marguerite; Lecault, Afime; Bouvrette, J.-Gabriel ; Cauchon, Apollinare;Doré, Joanne, Hénault, Diane. ModNêe anli.8g -ùa -O'Kane, George-Robert ; Lemerjue, Gilherte ; onors. 411en ; Waters, Thomas. Mod\u00261 fra,çois.-Dùwntion --Bethuw, Malvîna ; T\u0026mrault, Apthe ; Fontaine ]Rhèa ; Loranger, Juliette ; Guénette, Florianne ; Jury, Cicie ; Nadon, M\u0026rWeJoieph ; Von-",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE15 dette, Rorna; Lecompte, Juliette ; Demch.mbault, Marguerite * Berger, Rome; Harbc Aurette ; Sabourin, Jeannette ; Dubreuil, Annette; Lachalpelle. Marie ; Lamr, Brthe; Hébert, Anne-Marie ; LAWol, Régina; Labelle, Rt;Deai, Pisam D BeortM. Ozina, a\" De.ieig sa laumtagn Jeaane*; Saun reret, Yvordnne Peerés ; ufou Mate s-Pirre Rahel; Groix, M.-Jeaznne ; Lapointe, Rosa ; Lavigne, Germaine ; )leurent, m.-' BertheJrne. Girardin, M.-Ang-oete-Laura. Deschamps, M..Félixine ; ledue, lAureLýýe; Bertrand, M.-Eva-lwam; Duenrcaai. Hélène; Dulude, ]Reine-Amée; F- oeur. Eva-Mary ; Crevier, Eméla ROUSSelle, M.-Adèle ;Toupin , Aina ; veseau, M.'-lrêne. Julienne ; Filiat M.-Blanche' Mathieu,' Elinabeth; Madore, JouPh-Auiside - Lacha- pelle, Pauline ; Gagné, M.-A.Gbriel-ennine ; O'Shea, Marie.Lau .péâ,,té Bru, 'canne ; de Guise, Jeanne ; Gagonf, Française ; Pion, Jeanne ; Guérin. Céciliete ; Ame., (;eorgette; Bernier, M.-Ami1e; Champoux, M.-Antoinette; Ga' n boa iad Béatrice; Roy, Yvonne; Lamarre, Gemawde; Larocque, Colobe ABron; M-rrd, ate, Lmnrette ; Phillimore, Enid.Lotitia-Watt; Cér, M._Ane e e. Gsdoury, Thérèse; Séguin, Béatrice;- Massy, Cécile; Durul oa;S-ie A drienna; Clii voine, EméIa P- Labrêche, Mine ; Labrèche, Germaine; Chagnon, Enidrentienne ; Gendron, (iêil; Monmen, Reine-Aimée; Moreau, M.-Clotilde; Racine, Aima-Maria; Gascon, Berthe; Laiontaine, Irne; Lanteigne, Marte-livette; Gann * .eme;Bale L-ouine; B\u0026chard, Adrliee; Con',ant, Uéon\"ie; Doyon, Gertrude ; SI-Michel, M.-Roae. I)elma Schiller, Sionne ; Courrol, Aiba ; Paulet, Yvonne ; Dagenain, Florence ; Denier; Elisabeth ; Dégaulnrds Gabrielle; Audet, M.-Cécile; Desrosiers,. M.-parmEîia; Ethier; L'nntine; Nolin, Rame-Aima. Pilon, Emélienne; Clermont, Cécilia; Laroque, Adèle; fliopel, Totaaaint..Evaie ;Bordua, Jeanne ; Martinenu, CI=ra; Bellerive, Antoinette, Beauchemin, Hemmélia ; Gauthier, Florence ; Bélanger, Fernande ; Lebeau, M.-Antoinette ; Ouellette, Aice; Payette, Eatelle; Barrette. Cécile; Latreille, M-Anna; Goumelin, Jo. - Gdrard-Magella ; Morin, NoëI-Romulus; Jeaharais, M.-Alice-Laura ; Luneau, M.-Laura Sit-Maurne, M.-Marg.-îda ; Bernier, Antoie-vils 1 Gariêpy, Germaine ; Lamner, Germaine; Lanctot, Céle; Ethier, Mignonnette; Moreau, Bl.-Aurore..Berha; Brouillet, M.-Louisew 'alênre ; Lachapelle, M.-Ev6lii,-Eulie ; R(millarcl, M.-Reire ; Bigras, Maria-Berrnadette. Ilamel, Enuna ; Robert, M.-Anne ; Lefrançois, Eva ; Chênevent, Aina ; Bigras, M.-Anne; 1Deniers, Juiette ; Leebvre, M.-Blanche ; Trudel, M.-Florence-Lucile. Modèle anhlais.-Distinegiea :-Flynn' Eliuabeth; Fenn, Emily; Leger, Rose-Ella; 1lartel, M.-Mary-Aêna ; Callaghia, Samuel-John ; Vincent, Hazel ; Healy, Margaret ; Bai- ley, Gertrude ; Kelly, Bileen. Modèlfrançair et él(mengaire atigaù.-Dir\"» :-Joly, Béatrice. Modèle français et anglais -\u0026tSaaùnii -Guilmetie, Léa ; Hamelin, Lauretti ; Bêliale, .';nml ; Villeneuve, J.-G.-Henri ; Pinsouamdt, Thomas ; Morinset, Emest ; Lafortune, Jo., 1 aprd ; Viau, Napoléon ;lapointe, Joseph ; Laroche, Charles-Augu.we ; Verdon, Joseph ; Laortune, Jos.-Cléridan; Tanguy, Jean-Pierre ; Grégoire, Joseph-Alphone. Moffatt- Modèle an glai e françaia.---g,,fai~jn :-Cadoret, Hildége. Modèle françaus et anglai.-Dýaginoi :--Cyr, Ritha ; Poirier, Edgar; Garand, M.- Ilonda; Rodrigue, M.-Marguerit JulWee -, Charrand, Margueriie Mille, ýe, Germaine ; Belisie, M.-Imelda ;, Denis. Germaine ; Trempe, M.-Louise ; Connolly, M.-An-ýonia -1 Baflîai gpon, Clarisse ; Nicole, Joaph..Adolphe.; Paquet, Jouepli-Le-Olier.- Bouffard,Jo--C4 lhIent-EmUle ; Turcotte, Napoléon ; Lapierne, Hervé ; Corbeau, M.-Anne ; Bergeron, Eueha- riste ; Guillo.te, Josephi ; Rémillard-J.Ernes ;, Verîrandere Joeeph-Emile; Pelletier, Joa.- :m e~ Goaseln, Jos.-Em ue ;Perraon, Jannes; D siel, Arhur; Carpentie, Rodophe; l)slje, Arthème4osph. Chauvette, Anthur* Thibault, Ar.hur-Edoard; Trudeau, Arcade; Ouellette, On\u0026ime-TMpMâe Desehènes, Jon.-Thomm ; Lejeune,, Jor.-Elzdar;- 'larid, Alphonse; Deschêne., Irénée;- Lacass, Joseph-Edouard; Monchamp, Toussaint; Lacroix, Joiepl-Napo\"o oagat George.Eli\" ; Ferma, M. Edouilda ; Pinsonnault, lioch.",
         "152 L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAJRE Modèle anglais et françaiiR.-Dioinctioa :-Turcotte-Joseph-Siméan ; Baillargeon, Joseph-Charles ; Laforee, Edward-Napoléon ; Reddy, Willam-Oerard ; Gauthier, Aristide- Armand ; Roberts, Henry ; Benoit, John. Académique fraoiçais.-Sagfaisant:-Deisle, Marie; Dumas, FrançoWsXavier; Rochan, Gabrielle; Robert, Antoamette; Gagnon, M.-Anna; Prouix, Calixte-Joseph; Maillé, Hélène; Hurýubire, Aline; Oranger, Thérèse; Hanck, Rager; Cadotte, Henri; Antaya, Lauretta ; Dugal, M.-Rosa ; Chatel, Lucierme ; Chouinard, J.-Aiédée; Langelier, Auguste ; Ethier, Cécile ; Laurin, J.-Zotique ; Tremblay' J.-Baptiate,; Valois, J.-Albert ; St-Jaeques, Paul ; Payette, Henri ; Dion, J.-A. Eugène. Académique anglai8.--Saùfaant :-Pcwera, Emily-Ward; Bélair, Carnen; Rearne Winifred ; Caffey, Apes. Académique français.-Disinction :-Leclair, M.-Aurélie-Perpétue ; Lepailleur, M.- Agnès ; Desmarchais, M.-Laurenoe ; Quenneville, M.-Rébecca ; Cousineau, Angélique Bédard, Aurare ; Prévost, M.-Cécie; Larivée, Aice; Benjamin, Béatrice ; Daté, Ger- miaine; Marin, M.-Eulalie-Esther-Bertlia; Briard, Jeanne; Gîrard, Béatrice; Laplante, M.-Mdita; Desjardins, Albere; Robert, Anma; Lefebvre, M.-Jeanne-Mary-Aailcla; Lafrance, Jeanne ; Côté, M.-Marguerite ; Morand, Gertrude ; Labrèche, Thérèse ; Bédard, Blanche ; David, Ida ; Roussin, Alice ; Quintal, M.-Cécilia ; Darian, Corimne ; Lataurelle, Toussaint-Léapold ; Gamelin, Alicea; Crat eau, Marie-Arme ; Laniarre, Laura; Latour, Aline; Rabichaud, M.-Jeannetle-Adine; Marier, L.-Edauard; Gravel, M.-Marthe- Sidanie ; Gagnan, Max.-Henri ; Vizina, Gertrude ; Carbeil, Darathée ; JoIy, Laurette Taupin, Thimothée ;Dubue, Rita ;Paquette, Rose-Emma ;Marin, Lucienne Chaquetta, Berthe ;Petit, Alice Dubreuil, Marie-Aima ;Leduc, Juliette Rivet, Dora; Groulx, Lorette; Walkar, Autanine; Tauchette Alphonsine; Renaud, Uaopold-Albert ; Hébert, Aibert-Liguori ; Hébert, Joseph-PauI-Alphonse ; Danis, Henri ; Sauvagesu, Charles; Ismbert, Jas-.Arihur; Carrière, Gea.-Etienne; Desmis, Maurice; Pampalan, P.-Alfred ; Roy, Anne-Darilda; Poliquin, M.-Alice ; Hébert. Ram-de-Lina; Ouimet, M.-Be i-he ; Beaudain, J.-Aldérc; Robitaille, J.-René (Irenée). Académique anglai8.-Di*inctio :.-Carbonmeu, Geargette-Olive ; Barré, Geneviève; Manohan, Kalhleen ; McDonald, M.-Mmaret ; McCarmick, Margaret ; O'Connor; Mary,-PAn; McMurray, Albert-James. Académique français et élmentaire angloi8.-Ditiniioi :-Darian Eugénie. Aradbn:quefrançaisie modèle anglais.-Satisfaisant -Lapointe Emilda ; Désy, Juliette; Guérin, Pierre-Marie; Brien des Denoee, Joseph. Académique français et modèle anglai8.-Deincion :-Bordeleau, Alice; Rodrigue, Jeanne-Claire ; Lalonde, Antonia ; Laehapelle, M.-Agnès-Ras-de-Lima : Granger, Ger- mair~e; 1Larase, Adrienne ; Lefebvre, Jeanne ; Falardeau, Luména ; Paissant, Joseph; Brassard, Blanche. Académique français et anglais.-Saifaiang :-Hamelin, Aniainette ; Rodrigue, JOB.- William ; Meilleur, Félix-Aurèle. Académique français et anglais.-Di*inctioi :-Bernigaud, Marie; Daré, Jeanne; Lepault, A lice ; Glackzneyer, Micheline ; Deschamps, Amnand ; Lauzon, Emle ; Caron, Lucia; Blanchard, Lucie ; Champagne, Eugène; Carbeil, Jas.-Hanoré ; Roch\u0026tie, Jas.- Errnt Trudeau, Jean-Louis ; Ferland, Hilarion; Prigent, Jaseph ; Tréharel, François- Mare Caron, Alphonse. Académique anglais si français.-Distincion :-Perraa, Irenée ; Brett, William ; Game- lin, Joseph ; Côté, Jules-Lorenzoa; Legendre, Jaa.-René ; Crépeau, Jos.-Ernest ; Shafier, Charles-Auguste. QUEBEC Modèle Iran ças.-iSatsaimWn -Moiaan, Simonne; Damers, Eméli Pellerier, FIa- rance; Lemieux, Alphéda; Malouin, Roii-Eninia; Mantreuil, Irène; Maisan, Marguerite; Lepage, M.-Thérèse ; Renaud, Yvanne ; Gingras, M.-Aurore-Evéline ; Gagné dit Bella- Ul",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 153 vmnce, Enule ; Beaudet, Gilierte;- Paquin, M.-Céee; Fortier, Juliette;- Bureau, Vbaldine;- Touaigiant, M.-Eliaabeth ; Langlois, Germaine ; Roy, Béatrice ; Gauvin, MinLcie ; Pl- tras, Stella ; Fournier, Georgette ; Renaud, Germaine ; Savary, M.-Jeainete ; Morin, Germaine ; Pouliot, Anita; U0Lpine, Germaine; Marois. M.-Jeanne ; Larrivée, Joseph. SylvioOvila ; Veleux, Joseph-Omer ; Boiteau, Cécile;- Mercure, M.-Alice ; Vézmna, Lu- cienne ; Hardy, Rita ; Ruel, Germaine; Morin, Antoinette. Modèle anglai.-\u0026Siùfaioeg :-O'Connell, Mary-Fredericka alias Freda. Modèle fran sù.-DiWnùcian :-Hébert, Corinne ; Demers, Eilienne ; Morency, Louisa,; Paré, M.ZélaBemWle-Aid. BiMais, Marde-Claire;- Demers, Antoinette aia Minette ; Grenier, M.-Jeanne ; Langloi, Claire ; Haguette, Angle ; Rancourt, Angé- linsa; Turcotte, Afime; Dion, M.-lr-Anna Audet, Fabiola; Dund, M.-Louise ; Biais, Berthe ; GiroUx, M.-Marguerite ; Cloutier, M.-Estelle ; Robin dite Gagn,' Louiiane ; BoWs, M.-Elizabeth - Clark, Laure-Eugénie - Dorion, Gabrielle ; Gagné, Ger- mi. ; Germain, Cécile; Picard, Anna-Marie ; Bolduc, Marguerite ; Harpe Jeannette ; Cloutier, M.-Anne.Claire; Lapierre, M.-Dorilda;- Arcand, M.-Mê\u0026ne-Suzanne - Bélimie, Berthia; Bertrand. M.-BI.-Lucienne ; Naud, Rose-Alma ; Godbout, Cécile ; G;.=ha, Catherine; Hamelini, Lucienne Auger, Marie-Anne; Bertrand, M.-Annette;- Lapierre, M.-Elmina-Bertha - Beaupré, M.-Jeanne ; Laberge, Joséphine ; Dumas, Adrienne ; Fortin, Eugénie ; Frénette, Blanche ; Grave!, Marguerite ; Hardy, Carmelle ; East, M.-Thérèse ; Hainel, Lucienne ; Bergeron, Julie; Matte, Ernestine ; Rivard, Blanche; Saint-Denis, Rita; Delisle, M.-EMli; Nadeau, M.-Adèle-Albertine. Rinfret, Sinmone; Hardy, Cécile; Martel, Germaine; Sylvain, M.-Blanche. Modèle a\"k .-Dù4jncj :-Wagner, Florene.Eliaabeth. Mod\u0026ifraêj et lmnenjajre a \u0026#-8aisfasan :--Dubé, lia. Modèle français et élémentaire anglaù.-DiWg,\u003c\u003e,, :-Dord, M.-AnuaeuWane ; Guil- lemette, Alvine. Modèle anglais et mania ire franças.-Dlitini :-Burns, Mary-Min. Modèle français at anglau.--Satufaaùant \u003e-Côté, M.-Jeaniie. Modèle français ci an ùai.-Distnction :-Gagné, M.-Thérèse ; Lamoaureux, Loretta; Bourbeau, M.-Irma ; LaRue, Jacqueline ; Viger, M.-Thérèse ; Mercier, M.-Ange-Anna Morin, M.-Elmina; Turcotte, Rita ; Fontain, Marie-Louise ; Cartier, Jou.-Eugéne-Donat; Veilleur, L.-Philippe ; Lu.ier, Eugèn.Adolphe ; Leclerc, Germaine ; Dumont, M.-Délima. Modèle anglais et froai.-Satsfai -Bérubé Lillian. Aoediqfm .-afùfaini :-OueUlet, Juliette;- Campagna, Raphaëla ; Bolduc, Marie-Mine ; Lahissonnière, M.-Cécile ; CoUin. M.-Denise; Trépanier, M.-Blanvh. Académique françai.-Disfinction :-Beaudoin, M.-Jeanne-Lucette ; Legendre, M.- Juliette ; Desrochers, M.-Augustine ; Girux, Anne-Marde; Therrien, M.-Jeanne; Savurd, M.-Jeanne ; Marquu, M.-Germaine ; Pichette, Marie-Blanche ; Samson, Laura; Rover, Ange-Aimée. Académique ang! .-DiWnci\" -MeCuUough, Yvonne. Académique français et modèle anoliu.-D d nn-Pémmu M.-Blanche; Marin Alberta. Académique français et angai.-I»istintio :-Marquis, M.-Jeanne. Académique anglais et fra sai.-Disfinptio -Côté, Laure. TROIS-RIVIEREF MoUfaçù-Siagn :ý-Richard, Anni tte ; Duval, Minette ; Lefebvre, Rose- Alba-Minette ; Mongrain, Bibiane;- Picard, M.-Ange ; Laperrière, M.-Flore ; Plamondon, Déia; Laroche, M.-AâSc-Eva. ModAlfra is -incion-HamelinUraue; Lefebvre, M.-Yvonne; Lufontaine, M.-Flre-léose Tousignat, Aurore-Blandline; Paquin, M.-Laure; Hyvon, Irée Marcotte, Cécile ; Beauhemin, Gabrielle.La Y n 4",
         "154 L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE Acadé,mique français.-Satifaisant:-Gélinas, M.-Sophie-Flore. Académique franmi8.-Dignction :-Decoteaux, Berthe; Rompré, M.-Blanche; Lefebvre, M.-Eva-Juhia. NICOLET Modèle françai8.-Soliifai8ani :-Parenteau, M.-Rui-Elphêgina ; Pepin. Angéfine; Derouin, M.-Roae; Demers, Bernadette; Girouard, M.-Ange; Gélinas, Marie-Anne; Pratte, Yvonne ; Moreau, Edouardina ; Richard, Yvonne ; Rom, Adélia ; Gingras, Rer. mance ; Lemaire, Antoinette ; Labonté, Anny ; Allard, Liliane ; Piché, Béatrice ; Pichette, M.-A.-NoéIie ; Morin, Philémonie. Modèle français.-Ditinction -8hooner, Cécile ; Desmarais, M.-Lorette-Aurore; Bibeau, Irène; Dubue, Eva; Audet, M.-Rose; Nobert, Alphonsine; Prouix, M.- Lorette-Lucienne; Laplante, Jeannette. Modèle français et élémentaire anglais.-Saisfaisant :-Cormier, Aimette-Yvonne. Modèle français et élémnentaire anglai8.-Diiinct\u0026m :~Grégoire, Bernadette. Modèle français et anglai8--Ditnction:-Plamnondon, M.-Alphéda; Baillargeon, Rose- Yvonne ; Banville, Marie. ST-HYACINTHE Modèle français.--Satifai8ant -Lavalée, Rose-Blanche; Sirard, Olivine; Moreau, Exilia; Boiselle, M.-Esîher-Clénient; Mathieu, M.-Juliette-Yvonne; Deslauriers, Aima; Bnelle, Germaine; Guertin, Adrienne; Bécotte, 18-Phulippe; Roy, M.-Jeanne; Faubert, Gea.-A.; Cardin, Arsena; LasaDe, Gasin; Breux, M.-Yvonne; CoWombe, Aiphonse. Modèle fran çais.-Ditinction. :-Benioit, Marie-Anne-Juliette ; Bernier, Marie-Jeanne ; Clément, Jeanne; laliberté, Aliina; Tanguay, Jeaime; Tétrault, Laurette; Lemonde, Blanche-Aurore; Lambert, Jeannette; Paul, Rébecca; Martin, M.-Anne-Yvonne; Désourdy. M.-Lucienne-Geîm. ; ILapalme, Olivine; Beaudry, Alice ; Bouthillier, M.-Eva- Elodie; Marion, Yvette; Salvail, Blanche; Cartier, M.-LUda-Diana-Noela; Deajarlais, Hermine; Fleurent, Ada ; Fontaine, M. %r.-Béatrice ; Lemire, Marie-Osienne ; Veinasse, Angélina; Langehier, M.-Juliette ; Maurais, Yvonne ; Bourgeois, Adèle ; Lachapelle, M.. Florida ; Ruel, M.-Ovélina ; Brunefle, M.-Emma ; Charland, Pauline-Mémée ; Chicoine, Berthe-Alice; Rémillard, M.-A.-Berthe; Taché, M.-eanne-Simonne; Delorme, M.- Annonciade; Dusêault,Laura; Choquetle,M.-L.-Eugénie ; Métivier,M.-Reine; Péloquin, M.-A.-Philomène; Chabotte, M.-Jeanne-Paula-Gabrielle; Fortier, M.-A.-Lucienne; Guer- tin, M.-Françoisee; Noiseux, M.-L.-Elizaheth-Laura; Breault, Herminie ; Comntois, Gar- trude ; Courtemanche, M.-Ange ; Fontaine, M.-Alexandrins ; Hévey, M.-Yvonne ; Pois snt, M.-Laurette ; Poissant, M.-Rachel ; Surprenant, M.-Irène ; Desrosiers, M-Alioe ; Laplante, M.-Minée-]Rose-ermaine; Tétreault, Elpha; Dragon, M.-JulWaAnnette; Arpin, M.-Diana; Girouard, M.-Yvanna; Harpin, M.-Aiinée-Rose; Laviolette, M.. Yvonne; Rajotte, M.-Rosa-AIba; Potvio, M.-Antoinette; Deslages, M.-Alioe; Pitt, M.- Yvonne; Fleuatte, M.-Blanche; Larue, M.-Rose-de-Liina-Germ.; Péloquin, M.-Jeanne; Archambault, M.-Cléinentine-Aloysia; Jacques, M.-Rose-Célina; Paradis, Eliabeth; Brodeur, Ernestine; Larocque, Euphrasie; Forest,AMica; Lapaline, Angéla; Raide, M.- Cécile; Therrien, M.-Eva; Therrien, Béatrice; David, Ermn; Choquette, Valérie; Pigeon, M.-Mna; Fortier, Béatrice; Bécotte, J.-Rervé; RainaI,Arthur; Martel, Albert- Lucien; Richer, Adélard.. Modèle français et élètmentaire anglais.-Ditincion :-Poissant, M.-Gabrielle ; Prouix, Claire. Modèle fronçais et anglaie.-,Satigfaisant :-Boulanger, Emeat. Modèle français et anglai8.-Ditinction :-Chabot, Fabiola; Doonan, Mary-Eliabeth; Favreau, Bernadette; Marin, M.-Diane ; Forest, M.-Roale ; Lippé, M.-Marguerite; Comntois, Mine-Marie; St-Onge, Viola ; Ostigny, Gertrude ; Hamel, M.-Berthe-Yvonne; Brunelle, M.-Blanche; Brunelle, M.-Irène ; Chabot, Gabrielle ; Leroux, M.-AnS ; Lufond,",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 155 M.-Antoinette ; Le'voie, M.-A.-Victorine;- Paquette, Ccile-Eileen; Robert, Graiella; Cardin, Thérèse; Rouleau, Antonio ; Lambert, Adélarti; Modèle angqlais et franae.-Dimcgio :-O'Shaughneasy, Frac. Acadéiuefr aù.-ti8faia :-Lanoue, Flore; Girard, Brigitte; Bail, Wilhel- mine; Mareil, Blandine;- Gaumond, Alice; Chicoyne, M.-Mlbina; Ta\"o, M.-Irène. Acadèanqu françaie.-Digùcne\" :-Fortîn, Ubalde ; Hénault, Françoise ; Paul-Hus, Ni.-Caroline-Herva ; Robidoux, Bella ; Bonin, Alice ; Bergeron, Laurs ; Corbeil, MI ce;- molleur, Yvonne; Cabana, M.-Alice; Ledoux, M.-Arzéie-Blanche - Paquin, M.-Rase Jeannette; Saint-Germain' M.-Emélie-Médora; Duhamel, Marie-Jeanne; Péloquin, Luicienne; Monat, M.-H. Corona; Archambeuit, Adoilda; Mongeau, Rose-Amande; 1iipaul, M.-Rose-Alioe; Nýonnni-, M.-Corinéie-Mmette. Académique français et mnodèle anglai8.-Diinction :-Delormne, M.-Blanche. Académique français et anglois.--Sai4pauant :-Gagnoa, Auréus; Baril, J.-Henri; CGingras, C.Wilfrid. Académique français et angla5.-Disinction :-Pemrer, Charles; Canibron, Franc; l)rouin, Albert; Lizotte. J.-F.-Elzéar ; Desclos, S.-Edmond ; Académique anglais et fran çais.-Ditincgio :-Kelly, Thomas-Francie. RIMOUSKI Modle fran çais.-Saifasant :-Plante, Albertine; Barrette, M.-Anne; Gapnon, M.- Aîigéline ; Rueat, Anne-Marie; Audet, Zélia ; Beaulieu, M.-Denise. Modèle fran çai8.-Diincun:--Dubé, Marthe; Durette, Florida; Côté, Alice; Lai oie, Eugénie; Côté, Jeanne ; Beaulieu, Léonie ; Tremblay, BI.-Anne-Marie ; Sait- Laurent, Marie; Bouchard, M.-Juliette; Académique fran çais.-istncgwn :-Martel, Flore. JOLIETTE Modèle français.-\u0026satfaiang :-Lachapelle, Georgiana ; Dupuis, Berthe ; Larivière, Salonmé; Fiset, M.-Clara; Grégoire, Thérèse ;LaSalle, Irène ; Duhamel, Marguerite ; I)onne, Eveline; Beausoleil, Marie-Louise; Brunel, M.-Louks-Chriatine; Joly, M.- Yvonne-Bemadette ; Paquin, M.-Attala-Alice ; Cadot, M.-Jeanne - Tureotte, M.-Laure ; Ferland, iléléna; Forget, Blandine; Houle, M-Berthe; Laporte,lBlanche; Coutu, Isola; Diifresne, Cécie; Forest, Yvonne ; Léveillée, M.-Joeeph-Eis - Raymond, Laurette. àfodèlfraiçai.-Digincgjn :-Roch, Yvonne. Coutu, Marie-Jeanne ; Ducharme, M.- A lbina ; Comtois, Léontine ; Bourgault, M.-Roee-Blanche ; Fafard, M.-Yvonne;- Rondeau, Ml.-Orisie; Sanaregret, M.-Ange-Fortunate; Desrosiera, M.-Prudentienne; Robert, M.- Rose-Ida ; Durand, Véronique ; Comtois, M.-Berthe-Imelda ; Geuthier, M.-Eliae;, Baril, Béatrice; Coderre, M.-Blanche; Lafortune, Rolande; Therrien, Paula; Dalphond, M.- Iouise ; Sait-Georges, M.-Emélienne - Picard, Emnestine;- Villemnure, Maria-Leurs Dupuis, Berthe; Lerivière, Salomé ; Fist, M.-Clarm. Modèle français et anglais.--Satifaiaant :-Ethier, Eva. Académique françaia.-8aisfaiant :-Gravel, Anita. Académique français e4 modèle anglais.--SatWsaisant :-Dubeau, Clara; Grignon, M.- Ltucipnne. Académique français et anglais.-DiWtin5 :-Duval, Germaine. SAINTE-MARIE Modèle franiais.--Satùfaaùant :-Pelletier, Marie-Aihia;- Goulet, M.-Eva ; Bisaon, Anna-Marie ; Douvifle, Germaine;- Lebb6, Lucàa; Capon Fabiola. Modèle frait a-DissÙ, s-Couture, Emilienne ; Nadeau, Maria; Rancourt,",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE Aurore; Paré, Msrae-An«e; Audet, Marie-Bernadette; Girard, Yvonne; Fortier, Mélins; Besulieu,bM.Blune; Amontagn, M.-Alice; Rodrigu, M.D\u0026li-Claudis; Germain, Heiinni. Modèle français si éllim5air amiau.-Dtdmdm -Nappait, M.-Aurore. Modèle oaiwuie éliuwutaire frantaia.-Dumtife :-gheehan, Lucy. Modèlefro anqee nqlai.-Dûtùtctin -Allsir, Rosie; Lord, M.BI.-Emii. Académ ique fan \u003cau -Stiai-an :-Jean, Alexins ; Lsmotagne, Bernadette ; Landry, Neflie. Académique françig.-Dùinction :-Poulin, M.-Anne-Antoinette; Breton, Adélard; Biseon, Marguerite ; Lapierre, M.-Antoinette ; Audet, Emilienne. Académique françcais et élémentaire agù-Si.aat:-Duval, M.-Amie-Alice; Lehoux, Hervé. SHERBROOKE Modèle françau .-Saisfin :-Levaueu, Yvonne ; Mors, Bernadette ; Eiroue, M.-Denyae-L4onie; Pird, Alie; Legendre, M.-Juliette; Pagi,Marie-lino; Lumier, M.pBernadette. Modlefraas-Duiwtiom :-Grégoire, Antoinette; Jacques, AmieMarie; Deliae, Berthe; Lemay, Aurore; Lapierre, Laura; Cbamberland, M.-Hermance. Modèle anlai.-Ditiniio -Ba , Mary-,AgnéaViols. Modèle français et éUnesare a,.qlmj.-Dietintio :-Laroche, Leura,; Beliale, Antoinette. Modèle français ei angluis.-Disètin :.-Sdelu, M.-Anne ; Veilleux, Annas; Mar- cotte, M.-Blandine-Albertine; Duclos, M.-Anns; Dupws, M.-Alexandrine; Robicbaud, M.-Bl.-Germaine ; Clark, Antonia. Modèle anglais ci françaîs.-Diwtfio :-Johnson, oillian. Académique françats.-Stafaimai :-Ferland, M.-Imlds-Aurore. Académiqu anloi.-Batisaisa :-Mormsy, Mary-Cors. Académique fra ça.-Dialinction -Laparndeur, M.-Angêlins; Hudon, M.-Aline; Laramée, Aldora; Drouin, CédIe ; Faucher, Olivine ; Roy, Berthe. Académique français si modèle anglais.-Deùgction:-Oo.eulln, M.-Alma; Nouseu, Evangéline. Académique françai, et anglais.-Ditinctio :-Forte, M.-Eliaabeth-Jane; Brulé, Jeame; Verret, Lucienne. FRASERVILLE Modèle français.~-Saaaiai :-Bérubé, Yvonne ; Boulet, Rat bel; Lévesque, M.- Laurs; Michaud, Imelda; Cloutier, Suzanne ; Ouellet, Yvonne ; Sévigny, Maris-Cordéli; Tremblsy, Gabrielle ; Parent, Eva ; Bélanger, Rose-Délima ; Gagné, Bernadette ; Mawe- faut, Yvonne; Gastonguay, Juliami; Gçndron, M.-Rose; Diekner, Bernadette. Modèle françâiaýDaticai ý-Mbert, Jeanne-Eveline ; L4vesque, Yvonne ; Dubé, Rose-Jma; Leclair, M.-Rose ala Blanche; Michsud, Marguerite; Bérubé, Lucienane. MWd\u0026l français et anglais.-Dutwâmio :-Ouellet, Antoinette. Académique françie.-8ataant -Thébr., Jos.-L4on. Aadbuefraçaia-DiUnct -Doris, Yvonne ; Lévesqias, Mari-Lus oucy, Anne-Marie. VICTORIAVILLE Mo\"èl français.-BouSa aisan :--Boavet, Germaine ; Fortier, Marie-Anns; Brir- mette, Gratis; Pinar, Florida; Boiavert, Lucienne; Paradis, Antonia; Dearochera, M.- Apolline ; Millier, JTuliette. Modèle Ir-an ça-Disinction ý-Roux, Bone-mie; Fournier, Mine ; Mivifle, eimonne;",
         "a.I L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 157 Champoux, M.-I.orette ; Prouix, Bose-Anna-Rélé\"; Fortin, M.-Rome; Poitras, M.-Amanda Atita alias Annita;- Champagne, M.-Ange. Moefrançis -9 éUmensafr 4-.\u0026lfes, -Roulx, Gabrielle. Mod\"eIa Poieo et élémentaire anglais.- ùincton :--Lalier, Yvonne. SAINT-GEORGES. Modèle françaie.-,SatWaaiew :-Lafontaine, Joséphine; Poulin, M.-Aice-Roeanns; BIa.s M.-Anna ; Giguère, Aurda; Dionne, M.-Annette-Fernande; Gagnon, M.-Anathslie. Cors; Gendreau, Mirés; Poulin, Delvins; Bernard, M.-Anne-Phfiomêne; Gagné, Gisèle; Lsbbé, J.-Florien ; Paquet, Joèeph-ffennÎégalde. MoUefrmai.-D\u003eiWnimu:-Loigon, M.-Emérentienne ;Scott, M.-Jeanne-Marg. Jutras, M.-Georgette; Samson, M.-Eugénie; Talbot, Valentine; Lambert,M-Aen; Roy, M.-Ange-Reine ; Roy, Blandie-Julie ; Roy, Désida ; Corrivesu, Joaeph-Léo..Mbert; Poulin, M.-Georgiana. Mod\"l français et ang ai.-Dietimo :-Bolduc, M.-Roe-Regjna alias Floride; Allaire, Rosde;. Madilefrançaù et élémetaire a e.aù-Di8giinm -Biais, Blanche. Modèle anglais et fanmie.-DûiWn :-Routhier, M.-Ida-Florence. CHICOUTIMI Moèefrnçaù8.-njSa«aimi :-Claveau Estelle ; Côté, M.-Jeanne. Mo\"flefis.DiWnetio :-Boivin, Philomène-Germaine ; Boujianne, M.-Yvonne; Dauphinaia, Cécile. Aadran\u003c4ais.Dini :-Rakndg, Yvonne ; Riverin, Eliette. VALLEYFIELD Mo\u0026frai.-\u0026igfaùag:-MaltteM...Maig.flore -Bourget, Yvonne. Mo\"èl anglais.-B-atisang :-Walsh' Eliaseh. MOekfrançajdinc :-Mallette, Juliette ; Sauvé, M.-Mice-Hectorine ;Mardil, Alice. Modèl anglais.-DincKio, : yr, Clotilda. Mo\"èl françai et ang e.-Disi,'cgio :-Montpetit, Eliaabeth. Académique français.--Saùaisn :-Ostigny, Jeanne. Académique anglais.--Saiaa g :-Wslli Gertrude. Acadmiqufrançau et moWe\u0026 nli.-» to ::iMrnd, Béatrice. SAINT-FERDINAND. MO\"èl franMai.-8atian :-Rouleau, Marie-Mna, Roussesu, Berthe; Mongeau, Mice ; Boissonneauit, Miarg. ; Gouselin, M.-Ange ; Lafont aine, Christine. Modèl franis.-DiWetin :-Goeaelin, M.-Bars-Héléna ; NadeSu, Berthe; Tardif, I)orothée; Tourigny, Cors ; Tourigny, Yvonne;- Dugal, Rachel; Garn én;Gnt Eugénie ; Gilbert, Alméda Boagr Smne Bergeron, M.-Ange-Berthe; Perron, M.-EusénWI\u0026dure ; Gousein, Adrienne. Académique frn s-it,4o -IaimWr, Méd\"a; Lessard, M,-\"nn; Bourke. MarieFlore; Lassard M.-Juliette.",
         "158 L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE FABNHAM. Miodèlefro e.-Dimctiot \u003e-Hubert, M LAia;Caigrain, Gabrielle. Modèemncusi t e it.-Diùw\"io s--Hébet, Jo4phine ; Archambeuit, Béatdic. Académique frafflo et Mlisntaire anglais.--aiaimin :-Duquette, Blanche. MONTEBELLO. Modèle frmancie.-Saifuiant :--Ménard, Laura. Modèle fmr si.-Dii:neo s-Cardinal, Aleina; Béanger, Em4rentienme ; Growx, Blanche. Modèlefrancao .et élémentdaire anglais.-Diinctio --Guet, Blandine. Modèle français et anglais.-Disfinction :-Quesnel, Florida-Ehnire auia Florence; Lépine, Leurs. ROBERVAL Modèlefrançais.-Si4afai8ant :-Brassard, Anne-Marie ; Demers, Lydia. Modèle ranças.-Dieftndimo --Thibault, M.-4IA\". ModèJe fran cou, t angl s-Diinction :-Roy, Adrienne. BAIE ST-PAUL. Modèle françaia.-Sdtifaigant :-Tremblay, Marie-Victoria ;Lavoie M.-Anme; Prui- neau, M.-Jeanne ; Vallée, Germaine ; Boulianne, Corinne. Modèle françai8.-Diinciion :-Maltais, M.-Alhine ;Bouchard, M.-Délia ; Pedneauli, M.-Louise ;Paré, Germaine ;Simard, lUtina ; Tremblay, RoSe-Anna ; Turgeon, Madeleint- Dolorès Bhérer, M.-Blanche ;Gagnon, M.-Laure. Modèle fran çais et anglaiu.-Diiilcion :-Vileneuve, M.-Clémence-Rachel. CARLETON. Modèlefran çais.-DitiwÀ\"o :-Boulay, Berthe; Dupa, Béatrice. Modèle français et anlaia.-Dincuo :-Frenette, Evéline ;Godbout, Léonie ;LaBil- lois, M.-Hélène ; Lévesque, Bernadette. Modèle anglais et françaig.-Distinction :-DAmboise, Mary-Bertha. MANIWAKI. Modèle franças.-Diinction :-Carrières, Alma. Modèle franç\u003cais et élémentaire anglaie.-Distinction :-Dionne, Marg.-Dors. Modèle fran çais et anglaio.-Diefinction :-ébert, Phlomène. Modèle anglais offrança,.-Dimtneto :-Forest, Yvonne; Lynch, AgWa uMWa Margaret, HULL. Modèle angkai.-Satisf oisni -Brown, Ehusbeth-Dorothy. Modèle français.-Disinction --Garon, C4cile; Angrignon, M.-Eug6nie; Boiavert, Laura ;Bédard, M.A.-Germaine ; Belise, M.-Jesnne-ladrBae ; Deschamps, M.-Marguerit e; Lamoureux, Lucia ; Laramée, Rosa, ; Léger, Rose-Ella. Modèle anglaie.-Di\"ingion :-Dobson, Dorotha-Agnès ; Kavanagh, Margaret-Lorett a; Monaghan, Stella; Kavsnagh, Florence-Agnes; Baker, Mary-Bertha; Desjardina, Mer- guerite ; Gleaso, Edith ; Doherty, Loretta ; Morri.ey, Aileen.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 189 MoaWoefrao si éléueutare a lù.-Ditgd ~-Charette, Mary-Agatba. Mo\"èl français et anoà.-Saieasa,, :-Leroux, Mari. Modèle français et anglai.-D noion ---Smith, Hélées-C. ; Carpentier, Simonne;- Carrière, AIbina; Paquette, Annette; Soucy, Laure; Tourangeau, Jeanne; Cormier: Reinera Côté, Colomb ; Emard. Délina ; Cheffer, Cécile. Modèle anglais etfro,,çai8.-Dgin :-Maloney, Ehnima ; Burke, Violet. Académiqu françaa.--Saiifasang :-Clément, Yvonne. Académique ran çai8.-D anction :-Patenaude, Madeleine ; Bois, Mari\u0026. Académique français et modèle angW#i.-Ditinction :-Bertrand, Delpline ; Bruyère, Germaine ; Poupart, Lorette. Académique français et anglais.-asfaiani :-Clément, Yvonne. Académique français et anglai.-Dùi,,ictio,, -Aubin, Berthe; Geneet, M.-Lumnna Marier, Cécile-Annete; Girardeau, Adélie-Augustine; Oré, dlAustn-mçse Blaiseau, M.-Alexandrine.Mberfine.AéeAVtn.Fnos VILLE-MARIE. Modèle français.-Dintion :-Cotnoir, Eva ; Jacques, M.-Blandine. Académique français et anglas.-Diainction :-Poulin, Germaine. GRANDE RIVIÈRE. Modèle fran çams -Satifaisant :--Ouellet, Alice. Modèle fraftçais.-Ditinciion :-6tibre, Angèle. Modèle français et élémentaire anglais.-itnci\u003e, :--Grenier, Laure ; Gagnon, Julia-BI. Modèle fran çais et anglais.-Ditinction, :~Cormier, Béatrice; Laterreur, Anita. Académique fran çais et modèle anglais.-Distènctio '-Jonc\", Berthe ;Souey, Hectorie. BONAVENTURE. Moèefaçù-aifùn :-Leblanc, M.-Diana. Modèle fra ais.-Disiwgion :-Poirier, M.-Alberta. SAINTE..ANNDES-MONTS. Mo\" lfraffs.--iafai,p, :-Jourdain, Juliette. Modèlefransie.itindin :--Chouinard, M.-Aimée. SAINTE-AGATHE..DES-MONTS. Modèle froiiçai8.-Diti,c,., :-Chevalier, Blanche; Léonard, Jeanne ; Béliale, Ger- maine ; Bergeron, Germaine ; Deujardins, Germaine ; David, Yvonne;, Labelle, Irène ; Maié, Laure ; Michaud, Clairette ; Thisdèle, Eva ; Guéthier, M..Clémentine ; Legault, Suzanne ; Léonard; Lucienne ; Paradis, M.-Anne ; Collette, M.-Denyse ; Gagnon, M.-Albar- tine ; Lefebvre, Jeanne ; Rochon, M.-Julie ; Guéthier, Aice ;Lemay, Alice. Académique français.-Ditiuegi4,n :-Lanthier, Oliva; Quemnel, Albertine ; Paradis, Jeanne. Académique français et angli\u0026-Dii,,a, :-Brunet, Jeanne ; Marchand, Charlotte. MONT LAURIER Modèle françis.-Digentim~,:-Legault Alice.",
         "10 L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE AVIS AUX COMMISSAIRES D'ÉCOLES, AUX INSTITUTRI- CES ET AUX INSTITUTEURS Les instituteurs et les institutrices dont les écoles ont été fermées par ordre des com- misaoires d'écoles ou des autorités sanitaires, pour cause de l'épidémie de grippe, ont drois à leur salaire entier pour le temps durant lequel les écoles sont restées fermées. C'est la réponse qu'à donnée M. le Surintendant à ceux qui l'ont consulté à ce sujet. BUREAU CENTRAL DES EXAMINATEURS CATHOLIQUES AVIS IMPORTANT Le Bureau Central des Examinateurs catholiques attire l'attention du personnel ensei- gant et des aspirants et aspirantes aux diplômes sur la résolution suivante que le Comité catholique du Conseil de l'Instruction publique a adoptée, à sa session du 6 février 1918 : \" La lecture anglaise sera requise à l'examen des aspirants et aspirantes qui se présenteront pour l'obýention d'un brevet d'enseignement àrançais, et la lecture française sera requise \"à l'examen des aspirants et aspirantes qui se présenteront pour l'obtention d'un brevet \"d'enseignement anglais. Cette résolution a été sanctionnée par le lieutenant-gouverneur en conseil, le 11 mai 1918. En conséquence, les aspirants et les aspirantes aux diplômes français qui se préserteront à l'avenir devant le Bureau d'examinateurs seront obligés de subir l'examen sur la LECTURE ANGLAISE, et les candidats aux diplômes anglais seront, de leur côté, tenus de subir l'exa- men sur la LECTURE FRANÇAISE. Cette lecture, française ou anglaise, suivant le cas, se fera dans un livre quelconque. Il sera alloué dix points pour cette matière d'examen. J.-N. Mirza, Berétaire. DOCUMENTS SCOLAIRES LE CERCLE PEDAGOGIQUE JACQUES-CARTIER, 1E L'A. C. J. C. L'an passé, j'avais le plaisir de donner aux lecteugde l'Eneignement primaire un résumé des travaux de notre cercle pour 1916-1917. Aujourd'hui, je me permets de leur présenter un nouveau rapport sur la besogne accomplie durant l'année scolaire écoulée. Notre cercle a tenu vino-deu sésnces d'étude. Une séance spéciale, dite intercercle, a été en plus organisée : notre ami Nepveu y donna une causerie très élaborée sur l'inmeition oblgatoire. A nos nombreuses réupions, 34 travaux sérieux ont été traités. Désignés à l'avance, lus au cercle, soumis à la discussion, puis condensés et imprimée dans notre petit organe \"Semons\", tout fut conduit avec méthode et un succès appréciable 1 La psychologie de l'enfanu, tel est le titre général que l'on peut donner à nos études pédagogiques. Nous avons compris qu'il n'était plus suffsant d'étudier les méthodes et les procédés, qu'il nous fallait en plus, nous professeurs, acquérir des notions indispen- sables de physiologie et de psychologie. C'est la combinaison de ces diverses connaissances qui permet à un instituteur de se spécialiser et de devenir un expert dans sa profession.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 161 es membres du cercle Jacques.Cartier, sans l'être tout probablement, tendent à y par- venir. le fait d'appartenir à l'A. C. J. C.-dont le progranume et tout de formation rnsonnele et profeeaionnelle-nous a donc poussés dit la bonne voie. Par là aussi, nous allons à l'encontre de dires de certaines personnes-notamment les médecin-pré tendant que les professeurs de l'enseignement primaire ignorent tout de la vie organique et psychologique chez l'enfant. En général, pouvons-nous affirmer désormais, les institu- tleur, tant das notre cercle que dans les autres, sont plus soucieux de baser leurs méthodes Pt leurs procédés, comme leur discipline et leur direction, sur une connaissance exacte de leurs élves, de leur nature commune comme de leur caractère particulier. On lira sans doute avec intérêt les titres des 14 conférences données et commentées durant l'année scolaire 1917-1918. En voici la nomenclature: I-Physiologie du système nerveux (Initiation aux études psythologiques). TI-Evolution générale de l'enfant. II-Développement de l'attention chez l'enfant. IV \" di l'observation chez l'enfant. ' la mémoire chez l'enfant. VI di \" l'organisation créatrice chez l'enfant. VII-Association des idées chez l'enfant VIII-Développement de l'intelligence générale chez l'enfant. iX- \" du sens esthétique et du dessin chez l'enfant. Sreligieux chez l'enfant. XI-Tendances sensitives de l'enfant. XII-Education de la volonté. XIII-Dveloppements de la pensée logique. XIV-Les fautes volontaires chez l'enfant. A côté de ce études d'intérêt spécial, nous avons voulu revoir et approfondir des ques- tions de portée plus étendue. Trop de professionnels, nous dit-on souvent, se confinent exclusivement dans leur sphère et parviennent à ne plus rien connetre pratiquement des grandes idées religieuses, nationales, sociales. L'individu domine chez eux le citoyen et le catholique. Afin de parer à une lacune évidemment déplorable, pour varier nos études, tout comme pour compénétrer et nourrir l'enseignement de fortes idées, de grands principes et de sentiments plus réels, nous avons voulu revenir sur des questions d'apologétique. Les 14 sujets suivants ont été étudiés: 1. la création (explication biblique et scientifique); 2. le déluge; 3. l'origine de l'horrme ; 4. prétendue intolérance de l'Eglise 5. les croi- sondes 6. la résurrection ; 7. le procès de Galilée ; 8. la Saint-Barthélemy; 9. l'Inqui- sition 10. le pouvoir des papes au Moyen Age sur le temporel des princes ; 11. Révocation de l'ait de Nantes; 12. pouvoir temporel des papes ; 13. histoire des mauvais papes; 14. l'authenticité des Evangiles. Ajoutons à ce 28 causeries, deux conférences sur l'épargne, une sur l'A C. J. C., comme moyen de formation personnelle, une sur l'Acte de la Confédération, et enfin une autre sur le droit, ses sources, ses différentes espèces. Les résumés de chacun de ces travaux sont contenus dans notre \"Semons\", \"petite revue qui a bonne envie de vivre, disait notre secrétaire dans son rapport général, mlr son apparence humble, nme un peu chétive, et qui est une des meilleures manifestations de la vie intellectuelle et studieuse de notre cercle\". Nous avons même eu le plaisir d'y lire deux poésie \"à l'arôme sentimental et bien canadien\" d'un de nos am. Signalons encore la lecture et le commentaires des statuts généraux de l'A. C. J. C., des articles importants de revues, une polémique sur l'éternité de la matière. Je pass os siloence-et ce n'est peut-être pas le moins important-ce qui a trait à la pié et à l'oc\", voulant me limiter à l'article m pai. En somme, je crois pouvoir dire que la bonne voie nous est ouverte, qu'i faut y aller de l'avant. C'est ce qui arrivera. En effet, dès le 4 septembre, nous nous sommesrei",
         "162 L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE à l'oeuvre et l'amnée s'annonce fructueuse comme la précédente. Un programme de 2\u003c) caureries sur l'IJstruction Imbliqe au Canada a été tracé, distribué, et les sujets secondair s sont aussi déterminés. Fuissions-nous le bien remplir, pour le plus grand bien de nio élèves et le nôtre 1. .e. Quant aux amis que le service militaire nous a enlevée, nous leur faisons des voeu de prompt retour. De nouvelles recrues sont venues, vais leur place à eux est sauve; nous serons plus nombreux pour les recevoir chaleureusement de nouveau. GUsWrvE BELLEFLEURI, professeur, Montréal, 26 septembre 1918. Ex-président* FETE SCOLAIRE A LORETTEVILLE Dimanche, le 6 odtobre, avait lieu à Loretteville, près Québec, la cérémonie de la bén- diction d'une jolie école neuve, académie dirigée par les Frères des Ecoles chrétiennes. le sermon à l'église fut prononcé par M. l'abbé Langlois, curé du Sacré-CSur, Québec, et la cérémonie de la bénédiction présidée jar M. l'abbé Morisette, curé de la paroi,. Après la cérémonie religieuse, des discours furent prononcés par M. Gagnon, président de la commission scolaire ; par Sir Lomer Gouin, Premier Ministre ; l'honorable C.-F. Dq\u0026ge, Surintendant de l'Instruction publique ; M. Aurèle Leclerc, déput4; M. C.-J. Magnan, Inspecteur général. loretteville est maintenant dotée d'une belle école primaire supérieure, grâce au zèle et à la persévérance des commissaires d'écoles de cette belle localité. ENSEIGNEMENT PRATIQUE INSTRUCTION RELIGIEUSE \"LE PATER \" OU \" ORAISON DOMINICALE\" (1) NoTi PsR.-Nous disons : Noare Père ! et non pas : Mon Père ! car nous sommes tous des frères, membres de la même famille, qui est l'Eglise de Jésus-Christ. Le Père de famille est DIEu, de qui pro- cède toute paternité. Notre Mère est l'auguste Vierge MArmE, que ce divin Père a prise pour épouse en lui faisant concevoir son Fils unique dans le mystère de l'Incarnation. Notre frère ainé est JMsUs-CRIUST, le Dieu fait homme, le Fils de Dieu et le Fils de Marie. Nos autres frères sont les SArm, c'est-à- dire les chrétiens fidèles qui nous ont précédés dans la vie, et qui sont entrés sous le toit paternel du Paradis. (1) voir I'auirwewm primei,. d'octobmr 191. ' Nous autres, enfants de Dieu, enfants de Marie, frères de Jésus-Christ, frères des saints et des martyrs par le bapteme, nous formons aussi sur la terre, en union avec la famille céleste, une grande famille. Nous avons un père visible, vicaire de notre Père céleste et invisible : c'est le PAPE, Chef et Père de l'Eglise, que nous appelois pour ce motif Notre Saint-Père le Pape. Notre Mère est l'Eglise. Nos frères sont Tous LES CHRTIENs. La table de famille qui nous réunit ensemn- ble est le banquet sacré de l'Eucharistie, (à nous mangeons le pain vivant qui noue donne la force nécessaire pour arriver à notre Père du ciel, après le voyage de la vie. En disant NoTaE PÈRE, nous déclarons",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 163 non seulement que nous sommes tous frères et qu'ainsi nous devons nous entr'aimer, mais encore que noua voulons prier pour nos frères et avec nos frères, dans l'espé- rance que nos prières seront plus facilement exauées. I souverain Maitre de l'univers n'a pas voulu que nous priions séparésnent dans nos oraisons particulières; il veut qu'une seule me prie pour toutes les autres, qu'il a portées dans la sienne. Nous devons donc prier pour les pécheur, afin qu'ils se convertissent ; et pour le jutes, afin qu'ils persévèrent et fassent des progrès dans la vertu. \"Pries les uni pour les autres, afin que vous soyes sauvés\" nous dit l'apôtre saint Jacques. Et saint Jean Chrysostome ajoute cette belle réflexion : \"'La nkat nous force de prier pour nous-momes, et la charité fraternelle nous invite à prier pour le prochain ; la prière la plus agréable à Dieu n'est pas celle que la ncessité lui adresse, mais celle que lui présente la charité.\" Il est indubitable que plusieurs prières réunies touchent le ceur de Dieu plus effica- cement qu'une seule. * Qui TU Aux CIEUX-Quoique Dieu soit partout et en noua-mêmes, nous devons le considérer dans le ciel, où il se montre à ses élus sans ombres et sans nuages. Che- chons partout notre bon Père, car il est par- tout ; mais cherchons-le principalement dans le ciel, parce qu'il y est dans sa gloire; et ne craignons rien soua ses ailes. C'est dans le ciel que nous somne appelés à régner nousimmes. Le ciel est notre héritage, notre patrimoine, notre patrie, notre ville, notre maison. Habitons-y donc en esprit ; tournons là toutes nos pensées. Sursum corda : En haut les cours ! Déta- chons-les des plaisirs trompeurs de ce monde, des bagatelles qui passent, pour aimer, pour désirer et demander les biens du ciel et de l'éternité. Cette Préface de l'Oraison Dominicale est bien courte ; mais qu'elle est remplie de mystères suaves et profonds ! Aimons le Père en Jésus-Christ son Fils unique, par leur Esprit, qui est en nous. Aimons aussi tous ceux qui sont appelés à la même grâce, et qui peuvent dire avec nous dans le même esprit : Notre Père ! Ainsi toute la Trinité sera adorée et aimée ; la fraternité chrétienne sera exercée; et en disant de bon coeur, dans le Saint- Esprit, ces seuls mots : Noire Père qui êtes aux cieux, nous accomplissons toute justice. Chanoine J.-M.-A. LANGUE FRANCAISE COURS ÉLÉMENTAIRE DICTÉES I Le corps humain l'intérieur de notre corps, se trouvent les poumons, le coeur, le foie, la rate, l'estomac et les intestins. Le corps humain est le chef-d'œuvre du Créateur. ExaacrcS écan..-1. Copier la dietée. 2. Faire la liste de noms qui désignent le di- veres parti. du corps humain et en indiquer le aoresue.et lenomtue. Exemple: - Notr corps se compose d'une tête, d'un Tête-m. na m. torse ou buste et de quatre membres, qui Tore-masc. sing. sont les deux bras et les deux jambe. La Membre--mase. plur., etc. sont les ras t l s de x Je he5* 1* 3 (tevisio n.) T rouver et crire l e. nom , de tête est formée par le crne recouvert de vingt aiments (n, viande, Oeuf, beurre, etc.) cheveux. Sur la face ou visage, sont le front, le. yeux, les joues, le nez, la bouche et, de chaque côté de la tête, il y a une oreille. La tète et portée par le cou. Le buste est Decxnrs envers lu Parents. formé par le dos et la poitrine. Les bras se terminent par le mains et les doigts. Tu es à tes parents un grand sujet de Ies jambes se terminent par les pieds. A soucis. Si tu ne peux maintenant partager 'I ft",
         "164 L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE leur tâche, tu t'eforceras au moins de la leur rendre moins dure par le soin que tu prendras de leur complaire et de les aider, selon ton àge, avec une tendresse toute liliale. Il vient un temps où la vie décline, oi le corps a'afaibNi, les forces s'éteignent ; enfant, tu dots alors à tes vieux parents les soins que tu as reçus d'eux dans tes pre- mières années. Celui qui délaisse son père et sa mère, qui demeure sec et froid à la vue de leurs souffrances et de leur dénû- ment, a un mauvais coeur : il en portera la peine tôt ou tard. Examclca.-Souligner les verbe@ et dir. s'ils sont employée au futur, au préeent ou au passé. Pour chaque verbe, indiquer le sujet et le coi- plèment dimet. RÊCITATION La grande soeur Elle avait ses cinq ans à peine, Qu'on admirait dans la maison, Dans la maison bruyante et pleins, Sa bonne humeur et sa raison. Toujours à bien faire occupée, Ferme et vaillante avec douceur, Elle aimait, a lieu de poupée, Elle aimait sa petite smur. Mais c'est quand vint le petit frère, C'est alors qu'il fallait la voir. Comme elle était heureuse et \u0026ière De bercer l'enfant chaque soir. Alors elle était grande et sage, Bonne aux plus sérieux emploie; Ce n'était point un badinage, Elle avait sept ans, cette fois ! Vicox D L.APADa. Qvss'nom.-Par quelles qualites a faisait admirer la grande sour ?-Quel était son AsW ?- Quelles étaient ses occupations préférées ?-Com. ment se conduisait-elle envers sa seur, an petit frère ?-Que penses-vous de cette grande soeur ? RÊDACTION SUJET A TRAITER LA Moucu Pierre a pris une mouche. l lui fait une case, La ranie dans son pupitre, Se distrait et distrait ses camarades an dass. Punition méritée. SUJET TRAITÉ Les bons écoliers s'occupent de leurs études et doivent fuir tout ce qui est ocession de se distraire. . Ce n'est pas l'avis de Pierre. Il a pris une mouche, ce qui déjà l'a empêché de suivre les avis du maltre pendant une partie de la classe. Ensuite, il a fait une petite cage en papier pour y mettre la mouche, qu'il avait mise préalablement dans se batte de plumes. Elle est jolie, cette petite cage et il y introduit la mouche avec mille pré- cautions, puis il place la petite prison et la prisonnière dans son pupitre ; mais il le rouvre à chaque instant pour les regarder, les faire voir à ses condisciples, qui les suivent des yeux et ne savent plus ce que le mattre dit. -Que penses-vous de ce que je viens de lire, Pierre, dit tout à coup le professeur? Qui est bien embarrassé? C'est Pierre. Il se trouble, balbutie en se levant et fina- lement reste debout, penaud au milieu de ses camarades qui rient. -Asseyes-vous, Pierre, dit le professeur sévèrement, mais pas avant de m'avoir donné votre cage à mouche, sujet de distrae- tion pour vous et vos camarades. Vous feres une heure de retenue jeudi pour vous apprendre à savoir écouter. Il y a du temps pour tout, les bons écoliers le savent bien. En classe, on travaille et on laisse travailler ses camarades. En récréation, on joue. J'espère que votre punition vous fera réfiéchir. Pierre porta tout contrit l'objet du délit à son mautre et, comme il avait une cons- cience très honnête, il pensa qu'il avait bien mérité d'être puni et qu'il essayerait doré- navant d'être plus attentif en classe. Que cette histoire nous serve de leçon en nous apprenant que tout écolier paresseux et inattentif mérite punition. COURS MOYEN DICTÉES I La bonne mnagé,'r Y a-t-il rien de plus beau et de plus utile qu'une bonne m6nagire? La voici, toujours la première levée et la dernière couchée, donnant à tous l'exemple de la vigilanc et de l'exactitude. Elle va dès le matin dans la maison, animant toute chose de sa pré-",
         "L'ENSEIGNEM A'NT PRMARE sence, de son regard, de sa parole. Devan elle, peroMeU n'ose demue inactif, car 0 sait qu rinnei éappe, et que la mo\" négligence sea relevée par elle. Il ne fau dri Pourtant Pas croire qu'elle eut mm Cme Pondant ou réprimandant. Non, en1 a bon ceur, elle est obligeante, mais sérles et digne, et chacun de ceux qu'elle emploi sait qu'il peut avoir recours à elle dans L peine ou la nécessité. %maus.-flesr les Pacp primwaamaet le vf\"cP'a Psaaêa que renfermés la dictés et Jueti fier l'orthomrphe dus participes passés. il Amues vus percn* Que de fois, arrivé à Ilge mfùr, lhomme regarde en arrière. Il pense au foyer pater- nel, aux joies de son enfance, aux tendrsse de sa mère, aux bontés de son père, à leur commun dévouement, aux sacrifices qu'ils s soat imposés Pour lui ménager la position honorable qu'il occupe. Et, à ces souvenirs, la tristesse lenvait, son ceur seserme; il se dit àluWnmême: Ilje n'ai Pen \u0026MIe témoigné ma reonnaissace à mes parent\u0026 pandant que j'avai le bon6iur de les posséder. Pourquoi ne vivent-ils pus encore? comme je les rendrais heureux à mon tour 1 \" Il est trop tard, eu regrets ne s'adressent plus qu'à des tombes. Mes chers enfants, aime vos parents, aimes-les beaucoup, votre amour n'égaler jamais celui qu'ils nnt eu pour vous, et Prouvez-leur chaque jour votre recoulaas sance pour les soins dont Uls vous entowmrnt. CLAUU5N JURANVuLE. QUenUS.111-1o Donne le smm de: lig mgr, \"M 1qsard -s' a rmière, laIa, paenel t-il0 Ana-. lyses: sur \"Ceru\"w gu'ika se sasinpesa;-4s mot daim dam' tui seirne m \" t ana mm ouum -3o Conlumnneg le verbe serer à chacune du trois voix: active, Passive et réflchi, à la lme Personne du pluriel du présent et de l'lmparfaft delindicatif, du Passé défini, dufutur et du passé du subjonctif.-4 Quel set le commandemnt de Dieu qui vous chlis à aimer voe paent@ ? RÉCITATION L'ouiU Sur terre toute chos A sa Part de soleil;- Touite épine a la rose, Touts nuit, son révai. it Pour le pé,Diu ft 'heb a Pour le champ, la moisson; e Pour l'air, l'aigle superbe; Pour le nid, le buisson. e Tout arbre asa verdm,.. s Toute abeille, son miel ; 0 Toute onde, son murmure; 1 Toute tombe, son ciel. Danm ce monde, ot tout penche Vers un centre meilleur, la fleur est pour la branche Et l'ami, pour le oer. Euoàp\u003c u » OLAT. Q1JeM\"Oy.-Ent-9 un stre qui n'ait pue Me Part de la lumière et de la chsleur du snoei ?- Que 14mifi 1'expreeeon: foule iPâi e s meu f (à toute peine rdpond un Plaieir, une mteas. don; tout @Mort a se récompense: del léud, set ame maie le savoir, lus connaissances aeeal no0u Procurent de doucs satisfactione) . W* d W -ud are, ri ? (la, tr4eteue, l'enni, le d\u0026. Motl envahnjue quelquefole notre ime, msais l'épreuve n'est que piaeastr).-Qui a fait l'huis, la sectir,, et enfn tout ce qui exiete? Qu'estms que l'aigu ?-Que sigife li le mot, s % ?l'sps libre au-dessus de mute tétee).--Qu nou, donne l'Mre ?-'s.5 -Qu'entce que l'\" d? - Qu 5iP5llt-Ou mur,,.' du raiaaau? (la bruit que l'eau fait entendre quand elle coule). - Que ddfl - gonda tambac aie tOW (la mue« qui nos enlève nos Parente, nos amie, noue laiss., à nou chrétiens l'caPé'e de les retrouver un jour au OWe)-Pourquoi dit-on que l'ami est pour le coeur? - Qu faut-il observer dans le choix dus amie ? RÉDACTION Relpoece la mère Cmxà.- Pierre vient d'apprendre que Thoie ne respecte plus s mère. Il lui écrit, lui Parle du dévouement et de latendresse dus mire pour Meure enfanta, et l'engage fortemt à respecter et à honorer le sienne. Sait-C. .le... lois. Bien cihe ami, Depuis deux ou trois jours, ta bonne mère patraissat triste, souffrante, et je viens d'ap. prendre incidemment la cause de son cha- Ce matin, lons dems visite à ma mère, je lui ai demandé quelques nouvelles de mon cher Thoma. \u0026an répondre à mes ques- tions, elle a éclté en sanglota, a cach M",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE tête dans ses mains, et d'une voix entrecou- pée : \"Hélas ! a-t-elle dit, Thomas ne res- pecte plus sa mère 1 \" A ces paroles, j'ai senti dans mes yeux rouler de grosses larmes, et à l'instant même je suis rentré dans ma chambre pour t'écrire. Inutile, cher ami, de rappeler ici ce que nous devons à nos mères ; les bienfaits d'une mère ne se comptent pas ; toute son exis- tence n'est qu'un continuel et admirable dévouement. Ses biens, sa santé, son cour, sa vie, tout appartient à son enfant, à cet être qu'elle aime d'un amour constant et ineffable. Et tu affliges cette mère si bonne et si tendre ! Et tu remplis d'amertume, par ta conduite indigne, une vie qui t'est consacrée I... Oh ! cher Thomas, que n'assistais-tu à la scène attendrissante de ce matin ! Le spec- tacle d'une si profonde douleur eût été bien propre à te ramener au devoir filial I Je t'en conjure, n'accable pas de chagrin la vieillesse de ta mère, et si la voix d'un ami te laisse indifférent, écoute la voix de Dieu : \"Honore ton père et ta mère afin de vivre longuement.\" Puissent, cher ami, ces réflexions t'inspi- rer l'horreur de l'ingratitude, et réveiller dans ton cœur l'amour filial? Dans cet espoir, je te serre cordialement la main. PIBEX. COURS SUPÉRIEUR DICTÉES I La calomnie La calomnie I... J'ai vu les plus honnêtes gens près d'en être accablés. Croyez qu'il n'y a pas de plate méchanceté, pas d'horreur, pas de conte absurde qu'on ne fasse adopter aux oisifs d'une grande ville en s'y prenant bien, et nous avons ici des gens d'une adresse 1... D'abord, un bruit léger, rasant le sol comme l'hirondelle avant l'orage, piania- aimo, murmure et file, et sème, en courant, le trait empoisonné. Telle bouche le re- cueille, et piano, piano, vous le glisse en l'oreille, adroitement. Le mal est fait, il germe, il rampe, il chemine et, rinfortando, de bouche en bouche, il va le diable Puis, tout à coup, on ne sait comment, vous voyez la calomnie se dresser,siffler, s'enfler, grandir à vue d'oeil. Elle s'élance, étend son vol, tourbillonne, enveloppe, arrache, entraine, éclate et tonne, et devient un cri général, un crescendo public, un chorus universel de haine et de proscription. BEAUmARCHAIS. R*somu ORAL MT nÉFLEXION. - L'auteur a peint avec un très grand talent la naisance, la marche et les résultats de la calomnie. Après lui, on n'a guère rien à ajouter à ce tableau. Mais il est bon de le relire, de le bien comprendre et sur- tout de saisir la moralité qui n'en dégage : Calom- nier, c'est accuser quelqu'un d'une faute qu'il n'a pas commise, c'est inventer quelque chose pour lui faire tort, pour lui nuire. La calomnie diffère 1. la médisance en ce que la première est un men. songe, tandis que la seconde est la divulgation d'une faute vraie, mais qu'on révèle dans l'inten- tion de nuire. L'une et l'autre sont horribles. L'une et l'autre peuvent causer des maux irrépa- rables et en causent toujours de sérieux. Une per- sonne dont l'Ame est vraiment chrétienne ne Ce laissera jamais aller à commettre ni une calomnie, ni une médisance grave, calculée et volontaire. PRINCIPALES IDÉES. SENS DEs MO'r ET DIS PanAsas. - Plate méchanceté: Celle qui est sotte et grossière en même temps que malfaisante. - Un bruit léer rasant le sl.: Ces mots et ce qui suit font image pour ainsi dire et montrent com- ment, pour lancer une calomnie, on la murmure d'abord discrètement, à voix basse, en confidenee. -Pinissimo, piano, rinforsando, crescendo sont des mots italiens, des termes de musique qui signi- fient très doucement, doucement, plus fort, de plus sn plus fort.-Se dresser, sifer. etc. : Ces verbes font image en comparant la calomnie à quelque monstrueux animai qui peut à la fois ramper et voler.- Chorus : Chour, bruit formé par les voix de plusieurs personnes. Bcaumarchais, auteur français du xvnre siècle, remarquable par l'esprit mordant de ses comédies. GaAuxrax ET onrOGIaAPa.-Quels sont les principaux temps du verbe ? - Qu'est-ce qu'un temps simple, un temps composé ? - Donnes des exemples de chacun en vous servant du verbe manoer.-Combien y a-t-il de modes ? Exemples de chacun.-File, du verbefiler. il ne prend qu'un I de même que Adler, avaler, eaier, caer, égaler, étaler, saler, épeler, etc. c'et-à re la plupart des verbes ayant cette terminaison. Parmi meux qui prennent deux 1 citons : auer, débauler, emballer, inutaUer, réinstaler, doicenler, quereller, distilier, veciller, etc... -De bouche en bouche: Le ses indique lk singulier. C'est Comme s'il y avait : d'une bouehe à une autre bouche.-Il sa le diable, C'est-dire comme le diable, très vite.-.Baeeopp\u0026e il y a peu de verbes dont l'infinitif ait la terminal. son oper. Dselapper a easelopper prennent deux 'I",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 167 ilmais galPe,', #sMcope (terme de musique) et devoir de l'héritier sera d'honorer le mort de sa I'per n'en Prennent qu'un. reconnai.anoe d'entrer dauo au vues et de con- EXERtCICEC 9CIUT.-Faire la liste de. verbe@ con- tinuer son oeuvre. Les terres que les pères ont W110dn et i nidqatàqe oee arrosées de leur sueur et fertilisée. les arbres uquel temps se trouve chacun de ce. verbes, qu'ils ont plantés les habitations qu'ils ont cons. ANALYSEZ GBAIATICALE..4yn bruit léger mur. truite., les chemin. et les ponte qu'ils ont établi, mure et sème en courant le trait empoisonné. les églises qu'ils ont édifiées, les autels et les croix devant lesquels ils se sont inclinée et Ont Prié, le. lutte. qu'ils ont engagée, pour conserver leur indépendance et leur liberté, les jours d'allégress et de fête dans les succès, le. jours de souffrance Qu'est-ce qu'une naiùn et d'amertume dans les revers :voilà oe qui cons. titue les legs et les souvenir, de. ancêtre, à leurs t'ne nation est une àme, un ~~ fidèles successeurs. fuel. Deux choses qui, à vrai drnefot Nous nomms ce que nou filles. Cette phrase diren'enfont renferme deux Propositions, l'une indépendante et qu'une, constituent cette dIne, ce Principe l'autre subordonnée déterminative, L'indépen- spirituel. L'une est dans le passé, l'autre dante est mous sommes ce; le sujet est nous, le tdans le présent, L'une et la possession en verbe est somme8 et l'attribut ce, qui représente commun d'un riche le#s de souvenirs ; l'autre les Aoonree que nou filtes. La subordonnée est que roue fstm.s; le sujei s osl vre aee est le consentement actuel, le désir de vivre 1.trbuu mi t puesqu\"e vomesbftee ensemble, la volonté de continuer à faire L'aosua ne s'imprmae par. ImPrsvri, c'est valoir Iléritage qu'on a reçu indivi. faire une chose sans préparation d'avanice et sur-le. L'homm ne sinprtion'p champ. Ce qui constitue l'hommec n',est pas L'hmm n simpoesej)9.La nain seulement l'animation d'un Peu de, matière, mais comme l'individu, est l'aboutissement d'un cest l'omme de caractère et capable de grande. long passé d'efforts, de sacrifices et de choses ; c'est l'homme élevé, instruit et perfec-. dévouement. Le culte des ancêtres est de tionné Par la patience et les longs effort, de ceux tousle luslégtim; ls acêtes ousont qui l'ont précédé ; c'et l'homme rendu expert, tousle pus égitme lesancêresnouson sage, pru'ktnt et clairvoyant Par une longue série faits ce que nous Sommes. Un passé d'épreuves. Le développement den forces de son liéroîque, des grands hommes, de la gloire corps, comme de celle. de son esPrit et de son (j 'entends de la véritable), voilà le capital cSeur, et la série de. épreuves éduratrices ne peu- social sur lequel on assied une idée nationale, vent s'effectuer en un seul Jour. Avoir des gloires communes dans le passé, une volonté commune dans le présent, avoir fait de grandes choses ensemble, vouloir L iredass enterc en faire encore, voilà 'les conditions essn- L iredag8 enterc tielles Pour être un peuple. On aime en Le première de nos forces nat ionales, n'est Proportion des sacriffices qu'on a consentis, la foi. Elle est la plus haute, la plus sûre, des maux qu'or, a soufferts. On aime la laplsfcnedtoesesilecsqu maison qu'on a Ittie et qu'on transmet, Le façlonnentond peuple celes ns qui nin c h a î t s a r t a t e : \" N o s s m m e s c e u e o u s d a n s . l ' e x a c t e n o t i o n d e s es d r o i t s e t d e s e s fûfts ; nous serons ce que vous êtes \", est, devoirs et dams l'unité nécessaire de a vie. dans sa simplicité, l'hymne abrég de toute Le peuple canadien-4rançaiis a eu la bonne Ps rie. E. R. fortune de puiser dans le sein de la Franc, COMMRPTAS» RLATMf A L'IU4TRLIEC» nU ae le lait de cette mère généreuse, le sang ¶ETIN nU \"A DICTÈZ du Christ. Ilest né chrétien, et chrétien~ il est demeuré dans toute la slgnication catho- SOMMANR Du QUom. o Expliques l'ex- lique et romaine de ce terme, Nous avons Premionn: Un riche. iss de aourr.-2o Analsei 6plser logique de la phrase suivante : NOU visité p usun rs pays. Nous n'en connais-e VetOu fdta. -P.\u003c\u003e Que veut irve l'auteur sonsou aucun où l'esprit de foi et lem pratiques nifm-L'homm M s'improvsa pu religieuses surpassent ou même égalent oe RNIluEu Lam5 de us.n, -r\u0026' Le leo est un bien que nous voyons, à cet égard, parmi nos tru,,smis à Une Personne de confianeprlsdr pouai W-9rr volontés d'un mouant. C'est pour leds pouains de langue française. La, masse naueur une chose Moinsisse et OMMr - pour leîéa de notre peuple est croyante. Et cette tair,, ce doit être un dépôt sacré qui lui rappellera croyanet s'arrête pas aux confins t\"éoo. l'amitié et le. blenfaite de celui qui n'est plus; le giques de l'esprit incapable de mettre",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE d'accord la logique de sa pensée et le gouver- nement de ses actes : elle se traduit dans les faits. Mgr L.-A. PAquEr. Exnacea.-lo Expliquer le mm du titre: le pierre d'ssie de notre rasc. 2o Belever tous les verbes de la dictée et dire à quel mode, à quel temps et à quelle personne ils sont employés. So Analyser gramatA'lem'ntlaprendere phrase de la dictes et logiquement la deuzième. RÉCITATION Les vitnis et les morts Ceux qui restent à ceux qui pasent Disent : Infortunées déJà vos fronts à effacent. Quoi i Vous n'entendes plus la parole et le bruit I Quoi 1 Vous ne verres plus ni le riel ni les arbres 1 Vous alles dormir sous les marbr.j, Vous elles tomber dans la nuit I Ceux qui passent à ceux qui restent Disent : Vous n'aves rien à vous I vos pleure D'attestent.] Pour vous, gloire et bonheur sont des mots {déeevants:l Dieu donne aux morts les biens réels, les vrais [royaumes.] Vivants, vous êtes des fantômes I C'est nous qui sommes les vivants ! VicroR Huoo. COMPOSITION 'qui barne ses daesset tesjersasses rielse\" Développer la pensée contenue dans ce vers. CAàvas.-l. La richesse et la pauvreté sont de choses relatives.-On est d'autant plus riche qu'on a moins de besoins. Celui qui convoite et pauvre.... La convoitise non réprimée conduit au crime.-2. Par son imprudence l'homme ne crée des besoins..., il contracte des habitudes ruineuses. -8. Conclusion : modérer ses désira... DàvELoPPEMENr 1. La richesse est une des choses les plus relatives de ce monde. Mille france de rente paratraient une fortune à un pauvre artisan qui vit au jour le jour, comme le Bardier de LA FormrNE ; tandis que maint financier se croirait pauvre, s'il n'avait que cent frances à dépenser par jour. Ce qui fait le pauvre et le riche, c'est donc le plus ou le moins de modération dans les désirs. \"Que de choses, s'écriait Socrate, dont je suis heureux de pouvoir me passer 1\" D'autres, moins sages que lui, pensent en gémisssnt, s'ils ne le disent pas : \"Que de choses dont il faut me passer 1\" Et ils mau- dissent leur sort, leur pauvreté, leurs pri- vations forcées. Quelques-uns vont même jusqu'à se décla- rer les ennemis des riches et de la société. La soif de l'or les rend injustes, ingrats, féroces. la terre est couverte de crimes, dont la cupidité a été le principe. 2. Pour son malheur, l'homme se crée des besoins factices. L'exemple des riches, l'instinct d'imitation, la convoitse, tout le sollicite à dépenser, tout éveille dans son comr des désirs dont il faut acheter la satis- faction à prix d'or, et chaque désir satisfait en éveille un autre plus impérieux. Ce qui n'était d'abord qu'une tendance, peut- être une fantaisie, devient insensiblement une passion, une habitude, une nécessité. Ainsi la pierre qui roule sur la pente d'une montagne escarpée augmente à chaque ins- tant de vitesse, et plus elle fait de chemin, moins il est facile de l'arrêter dans sa chute. On entend bien des gens se récrier contre les chargea civiles, et qui se taxent volon- tairement d'impôts inutiles et ruineux. Ils sont innombrables ceux à qui la vanité, l'or- gueil, le désir de parattre, l'intempérance coêtent plus que la faim, la soif et le froid. 3. Franklin a dit avec beaucoup de rai- son : \"Il est plus facile de réprimer le pre- mier désir que de contenter tous Ceux qui le suivent.\" Sachons donc borner nos dé- sirs, et nous éviterons l'écueil de la pau- vreté ; car chacun est riche des biens dont il peut se passer. (L'Eoel dg la Famille.) ENSEIGNEMENT ANTIALCOOLIQUE DICTÉE Lorsque vous rencontres un ivrogne, gardes dans votre mémoire le souvenir de ce que vous lui entendes dire et promettez- vous de ne jsais lui ressembler. Que lui reste-t-il de l'homme? Il prononce des paroles sans suite ; il marche en chancelant. Il se retient au mur pour ne pas tomber, quelquefois mime il roule dans la boue. Le malheneux que vous voyes étendu MI",
         "- N L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 169 ov nt a peut-tre une femme, 3o Conjuguer le verbe -erdre\" au présent de des enfants qui meurent de faim en J'atten- l'indicatif, au passé défini, au pansé du subjonctif. dant à la maison. Il a bu au cabaret le ..1 4 Analyser grammaticalement et logiquement. salaire de plusieurs jours de travail, et si e malheureux que vous voyes a des enfant qui à son retour, on lui demande du pain, meurent de faim.\" Proème répond par des coups aux lamentations des Prob a n nl siens. Un pèe boit Pour $104 par an. Son fils vient de nattre. Il cesse cette dépense Ezanacuca.-lo Par quelle autr expm..on inutile et en réserve le montant pour son pourrait-on mmpiae: \"Il prononce d p enfant quand il aura 20 ans. Quelle somme 2u Truer d reviendra alors à ce dernier? 2o Trouver des synonyms de \" aare -. (La Tempérance) MATHÉMATIQUES ARITHMÉTIQUE PROBLÈMES DE RÉCAPITULATION SUR LES QUATRE OPÉRATIONS 1e Un entrepôt contient 1450 balles de coton, pesant 947088 livres; le stock comprend des balles de 528 livres et d'autres de 832 livres. Trouvez le nombre de balles de chaque espèce. Solution: Si les 1450 balles étaient de 528 livres, le poids total serait 528 livres X 1450 as 76560 livres. Mais le poids total est de 947088 livres ou (947088-765600-), 181488 livres de plus. Cette différence de 181488 livres provient de ce qu'on a compté toutes les balles comme étant de 528, tandis qu'il y en avait un certain nombre de balles de 832 livres ;, chaque balle de 832 livres remplacée par une balle de 528 a occasionné une diminution de, (832-528-) 304 livres dans le poids total. 181488 \u002b 304 - 597 balles de 832 livres. Rép. 1450 - 597 - 853 balles de 528 livres. Rép. Auitrement: Si les 1450 balles étaient de 832 livres, le poids total serait de 832 X 1450 - 12064« livres. Mais le poids total est de 947088 livres ou, (1206400 - 947088 -), 259312 livres de moins. Cette différence de 259312 livres provient de ce qu'on a compté tou- tes les balles comme étant de 832 livres ; chaque balle de 528 livres remplacée par une balle de 832 livres a occasionné uhe augmentation de, (832 - 528 as), 304 livres dans le poids total. 259312 \u002b 304 - 853 balles de 528 livres. Rép. 1450 - 853 - 597 balles de 832 livres. Rép. 2. La différence de deux nombres est 19223, le quotient de leur division est 247, et le reste 35. Quels sont ces deux nombres ?",
         "170 L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE Solution: 19223 - 35 - 19188, la différence diminuée du reste. Cette différence contient le diviseur 1 fois de moins que le nombre lui-même ; donc le quotient de la différence divisée par le diviseur - 247 - - 246. 19188 \u002b 246 - 78, le petit r ombre. Rép. 19223 \u002b 78 - 19301, le grand nombre. Rép. 3. On a payé $3325.76 pour un certain nombre de verges de drap de deux qualités. Une verge de la première qualité vaut $3.42 et 7 verges de cette qualité valent autant que 9 verges de l'autre. Combien a-t-on acheté de verges de drap de chaque qualité, et combien de verges en tout si l'on en a pris autant de l'une que de l'autre ? Solution : $3.42 X 7 - $23.94, le coût de 7 verges de la 1ère qualité. $23.94 \u002b 9 - $2.66, le prix d'une verge de la 2ème qualité. 83.42\u002b $2.66 - 86.08, le prix de deux verges de drap, -une de chaque qualité. $3325.76 \u002b $6.08 - 547 verges de chaque qualité. Rép. 547 X 2 - 1094 verges en tout. Rép. 4. Un marchand a acheté 435 objets de deux qualités différentes. En les revendant, il gagne $3.60 sur chaque objet de la première qualité et perd $2.40 sur chaque objet de la deuxième qualité. Quel est le nombre des objets de chaque qualité, s'il n'y a eu, dans l'ensemble, ni gain, ni perte ? Solution : $3.60 X 435 - 81566, le gain qu'il aurait réalisé s'il avait gagné $3.60 sur chacun des 435 objets. Chaque objet vendu à $2.40 de perte au lieu de $3.60 de gain diminue le gain total de $3.60 \u002b 82.40 - 86. 81566\u002b $6. - 261 objets vendus à $2.40 de perte. Rép. 435 - 261 - 174 objets vendus à $3.60 de gain. Rép. Autrement: $2.40 X 435 - $1044, la perte qu'il aurait subie s'il avait perdu $2.40 sur chacun des 435 objets. Chaque objet vendu à $3.60 de gain au lieu de 82.40 de perte diminue la perte totale de 82.40 \u002b $3.60 - 86. $1044 \u002b 86 - 174 objets vendus à $3.60 de gain. Rép. 435 - 174 - 261 objets vendus à $2.40 de perte. Rép. 5. Un ménage a dépensé $801 .36 dans les 7 premiers mois de l'année. De combien faut-il diminuer la dépense de chaque jour pour que le total ne soit que de $1206.81 ? L'année n'est pas bissextile, et les mois sont comptés avec le nombre de jours qu'ils ont réellement. Solution : Jan. 31 \u002b fév. 28 \u002b mars 31 \u002b avril 30 \u002b mai 31 \u002b juin 30 \u002b juillet 31 - 212 jours. 8801.36 \u002b 212 - $3.78, la dépense de chaque jour pendant les 7 premiers mois. $1206.81 - 8801.36 - $405.45, montant à dépenser dans les 5 derniers mois, août 31 \u002b sept. 30 \u002b oct. 31 \u002b nov. 30 \u002b déc. 41 - 153 jours jusqu'à la fin de l'année.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE $05 .45 \u002b 153 - $2.65, la dépense journalière pendant les 5 der- niers mois. $3.78 - $2.65 - $1.13, montant de la diminution. Rép. 6. Un horloger a acheté 346 montres pour $25950. Combien doit-il revendre la montre s'il désire gagner sur 7 montres le prix de vente d'une montre. Quel sera son gain sur 1 montre et quel sera son gain sur toute la quantité ? Solution 825950 \u002b 346 - 875, le coût d'une montre. 875 X 7 - $525. $525 \u002b 6 - 87.50, le prix de vente d'une montre. Rép. $87.50 - $75 - $12.50, le gain sur 1 montre. Rép. 812.50 X 346 - $4325, le gain total. Rép. PROBLEMES DE RECAPITULATION SUR LES FRACTIONS 1. Un entrepreneur engage un nombre d'hommes suffisant pour terminer un certain ouvrage en 84 jours pourvu que l'ouvrage d'une journée de chaque ouvrier soit la moyenne ordinaire de l'ouvrage d'un bon ouvrier; il se trouve que parmi les ouvriers un fait ' de moins que la moyenne, un deuxième / de moins et un troisième % de moins, tandis qu'un quatrième fait / de plus que la moyenne, et un cinquième '/q de plus. Le 84ième jour l'entrepreneur engage 17 autres hommes pour que l'ouvrage soit fini à temps. Si, pour terminer dans le temps voulu, les 17 ouvriers doivent prolonger la journée, dites de quelle fraction . si au contraire l'ouvrage est achevé avant la fin de la journée indiques la fraction de la journée qui reste. Solution %5 X 84 - perte de 14 jours d'un ouvrier, /7 X 84 - perte de 12 jours d'un ouvrier; '/q X 84 - perte de 9'/, jours d'un ouvrier. Perte totale: 14 jrs \u002b 12 jrs \u002b 9'ls jrs - 35/ jrs d'un ouvrier. /s X 84 - gain de 10½ jours d'un ouvrier. 1/10 X 84 - gain de 8% jours d'un ouvrier, Gain total 10j2 jours \u002b 8%/ jours - 18%/, jours d'un ouvrier. 35e jours - 18\"/I0 jours - 16'/o jours de perte. 16\"/ao \u002b 17 -9\" \u002b 17 - 2/, de jour, ce qu'il faut pour finir. a(30 -2/a 1/30. L'ouvrage est terminé avant la fin de la 84ème journée ; il reste '/,o de jour. Rép. 2. B peut courir un mille dans 6 minutes '/,. Dans une course d'un mille, A part 10 secondes avant B et le devance au but, de 16 perches. Quelles auraient été les positions relatives des coureurs à la fin de la course, si B était parti 9 secondes avant A ? aI I.",
         "172 L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE Solution: Dans 1 mille il y a 320 perche. 16 perches - L= '/» d'un maille. - '/ '/ d'un raille, ce que B parcourt avant qu'A ait atteint le but. 1 mille - 6'/ý minutes - 19i de minute. \"'/m d'un mille - \"i2 de ~/3 de minute = de miinute - 361 secon- des. A avait couru pendant 10 secondes avant le départ de B et il a couru 361 secondes pendant que B faisait les \"~/2o d'un mille; ainsi A a mis 10 secondes \u002b 361 secondes -371 secondes à courir 1 mille. B met 6 minutes '/,, - 380 secondes à courir 1 mille. 380 - 371 - 9 secondes, l'avance de A sur B dans une course d'un mille lorsque les deux partent au même instant. Si on retarde le départ d'A de 9 secondes il est évident que les deux coureurs arriveront, au but au mê'me instant. Rép. 3. Partagez 31246 entre A, B, C et D, de telle sorte que la part d'A soit égale aux '/Io de D, la part de C égale aux '/Io de celle d'A et la part de B égale à la somme des parts d'A et de C. Solution :Soit 10/lo la part de D; Alors '/Io de la part de D - la part d'A; et '/I des '/Io, de la part de D - L~ de la part de D - la part de C /,de lapart de D\u002b A de la part de D - de la part de D - la part de B. Io, de la part de D -la part de D ~de la part de D -la part d'A jo, e la part de D - la part de C . /t\u002b \u0026/ \u002b -e)de la patdeD -'de lapart de D - 81246. Z de la part de D - 1246 X -7 X100- 700 partde D. Rép e/de 8700 3 X 870 - 8210, part d'A. Rép. Sde 8700 -9 X 87 - $63, part de C. Rép. ioo de 8700 -39 X $7 - 8273, part de B. Rép. 4 Une personne qui demeure à la campagne s rend en ville, eat voiture, à raison de 8'/t milles à l'heure. Après un repos de 35 minutes, elle revient à sa demeure, à pied, à raison de 2/,\u0026 milles par heure Si elle a été absente en tout 7 heures 20 minutes '/1 quelle distance a-t-elle parcourue lorsqu'elle s'est rendue en ville ? Solution : Le trajet aller et retour a pris en tout 7 heures 20 minutes ~/t- 35 minutes - 6 heures 45 /1, minutes. Pour faire 1 maille, en voiture, elle a mis 1 sur 8'/é ou 1 \u002b 8î/t - *3 d'heure, ou 'la X 60 - */Il X 20 - /Il de minute. Pour faire 1 mille à pied, elle a mis 1 sur 2M/i ou 1 \u002b 2 -/ud'heure~ ou /ît X 60 - 'de minute.",
         "L'ENSEIG;NEMENT PRIMAIRE Ainsi si la distance avait été de 1 mille, le trajet aller et retour :itrait Pris \"\"/, \u002b 2ýL - de minute. Chaque '~dc minute représente une distance de 1 mille; 6 heures 45 'r, minutes - 40C/Il minutes de~ minute. il\u002b no- r 4460 \u002b 320 - Iie mailles. Rép 5. Un homme légua les 3/12 de ce qu'il Possédait à un (le ses fils, la 1,, du reste à un autre et le reste à sa femme ;la différence entre les Iparts des fils était de 82349. Trouvez la part de la veuve. Solution : 2 /1 - à/12 M /12 le 1er reste. hde 7/12 - 7/24 la part du 2nd fils. 1/12 - 7/24 - 7/2, la part de la veuve. Ou l'autre h/ de /,.. - '/24, la part de la veuve. /12 - 7/2, $ 2349. '/,- 7/2, = 2349. 3/2 - 82349. /a - 82349 \u002b 3 7/,- (82349 \u002b 3) X 7 - $783 X 7 - M581, la part de la veuve. lIcp. 6. Si, avec une livre de fil on fabrique 3 verges de toile de 1 verge et 'de large, combien faudrait-il de livres de fil pour faire 90 verges de toile de V2 verge de large ? Solution :3 X V1/4 - 3 X /4 / de verge carrée. 90 X h-45 verges carrées. 45 \u002b 5 X /,5 3 X4 » 2 livres. Rép. 7. Un réservoir est pourvu de 3 robinets ; le premier peut le remplir eni 3 heures, le 2e en 2 heures et le 3e peut le vider en 1 heure 24 minutes. Si lorsque le réservoir est vide, on ouvre les 3 robinets au même instant, dans combien d'heures le réservoir sera-t-il plein ? Solution -Dans 1 heure le 1er remplira /a du réservoir, le 2e, V2 du réservoir et le 3e, videra 1 sur /à, ou 1 \u002b 12/à - 1 X '/, - '/7 du réservoir. 1/ \u002b V2- 5/ \u002b /2-\". /2-3/2-54 la partie du réservoir qui serait remplie, au bout de 1 heure, si les 3 robinets coulaient ensemble 5/42 1 heure. «/42 1 x «/. - 8 heures 21b. Rép. 8. Une maison et un terrain ont coûté 88400; trouvez le prix de (chaque immeuble si '/t du coût de la maison égale '/a du coût du terrain. Solution : 1/. du coût de la maison -'/a du coût du terrain '/4 du coût de la maison - '/a X 4 =/adu coût du terrain. Ainsi la maison a coÙté %/ du coût du terrain. I.",
         "174 L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 3/3 du coût du terrain - le coût du terrain, 4/3 - le coût de la maison, 3 \" - le coût du terrain et de la maison - 88400, /3 - 88400 \u002b '/a - 84003 ×/7 - $3600, le coût du terrain. Rip. 4/ \"=\" \" - $3600 X 4a - $4800, le coût de la maison. Autrement : '/a du coût du terrain - '/, du coût de la maison, 3/3 du coût du terrain - /4 X 3 - / du coût de la maison. Ainsi le terrain a coûté les '/4 du prix de la maison. /4 du coût de la maison - le coût de la maison, a4 du coût de la maison - le coût du terrain. /4 du coût de la maison - le coût de la maison et du terrain - 88400, \" l \" - $8400 X 4/7 - $4800, le prix de la maison Rép. %3 - /4 de. $4800 - $3600, le prix du terrain. Rép. A utremen! : Soit $1, le '/a du prix du terrain, alors $1, le / du prix de la maison, et $3, le prix du terrain, et $4, le prix de la maison, et $3 \u002b 84 - $7, le prix des deux. Ainsi le terrain a coûté ks 3/7 de toute la somme - / de 88400 - $3600. Rép. Ainsi la maison a coûté les 1/7 de toute la somme - /7 de 840) - 84200. Rép. REGLES DE L'UNITE, POURCENTAGE, ETC. 1. Les droite de douane sur les haches sont de 82 par douzaine et de 10% sur la valeur. Sur une quantité de haches importées, un marchand paya $56 en droits, le droit spécifique étant de $24 de plus que le droit sur la valeur. On demande combien de douzaines de haches furent importées ; le prix coûtant d'une hache ; le prix de vente d'une hache pour réaliser un bénéfice de 25% sur le coût total. Solution : (56 - $24) \u002b 2 - 832 \u002b 2 - $16, les droits sur la va- leur. 856 - $16 - 840, les droits spécifiques. 840 \u002b $2 - 20 douzaines de haches. Rép. 816 \u002b 0.10 - $160, coût des 20 douzaines de haches. $160 \u002b 240 - 80.66/à, le prix coûtant d'une hache. $160 \u002b $56 - $216. $216 X 1.25 - 8270, le coût total augmenté de 25%. 8270 \u002b 240 - 81.12½, le prix de vente d'une hache avec 25% de bénéfice. Rép.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 175 2. J'achète des 5% à 5/ % au-dessous du pair avec courtage . (I'omment le placement me rapporte-t-il Pour cent. Solution : 8100 - $5'/, - 894/, le coût d'une obligation sans le vourtage. $94/ \u002b - 895, le coût réel d'une obligation. 85 \u002b 895 - $0.05°/1 - 58/io%. Rép. 3. Si 125 hommes, travaillant 12 heures par jour pendant 4 jours, creusent un fossé de 100 verges de long, 20 verges de lauge et 4 pied# de profond, combien d'homme,, travaillant 7V2 heure, par jour pendant 3 jours, faudrait-il pour creuser un fossé de 500 verges de long, 8 verges de large et 6 pieds de profond ? Solution : 100 verges de long, 20 verges de large - 300 pieds de long et 60 pieds de large. 500 verges de long, 8 verges de large - 1500 pieds de long et 24 pieds de large. 125 hommes, 4 jrs, 12 hrs par jour, 300 p. de long, 60 p. de large, 4 p. de profond. ? hommes, 3 jrs, 72 hrs par jour 1500, p. de long, 24 p. de large, 6 p. de profond. n2e x 4 x\u003c 1 x 2 X 180 x\u003c 24 x . X16 a x a x ox800x 4 6 - 800 hommes. Rép. 4. Si j'achète les %/, de 4 vergesY2 de drap pour 80.65 et que je vende 'r à de 1 verge Y' pour 80.24, à quel prix par verge dois-je vendre le reste pour réaliser un gain de 20% sur le tout ? Solution: 80.65 X 1.20 - 0.78, somme totale à recevoir. 80.-78 -80.24 - 80.54, ce qui reste à recevoir. % de 42 - / de % - 3 verges, la quantité achetée '/àdeî1 - / de 1 - Y/2o de verge, la 1ère vente. 3 verges - also de verge - 2.7 verges. 80.54 \u002b 2.7 - 80.20, prix de vente d'une verge. Rép. 5. Un agent reçoit de A, 125 barils de farine, de B, 150 barils et de C, 225 barils. Après inspection il constate que la farine fournie par A est supérieure de 10% à celle fournie par B et que celle fournie par C est supérieure de 5'/11% à celle fournie par A. Il vend le tout à$7 le baril et déduit sa comnussion à 4%. Combien doit-il remettre à A, à B et à C ? Solution : 125 \u002b 150 \u002b 225 - 500 barils en tout. $7 X 500 - $3500, la recette totale. 83500 X 0.04 - Ï140, la commission. 83500 - $140 - $3360, la somme à distribuer entre A, B et C. A125 x 1.10 - 137.5 barils. B 150 X 1 - 150 barils. C 225 X 1.10 X 1.058/, - 261 barils. 137.5 \u002b 150 \u002b 261 - 548.5 barils. (83360 \u002b 548.5) x 137.5 - (83360 x 137.5) \u002b 548.5-842.30, la part d'A. R4v. I.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE (83360 \u002b 548.5) X 150 - (83360 X $150) \u002b 548.5 - $918.87, la part de B. Rép. 83360 - (842.30 \u002b $918.87) - $3360 - 1761.17 - $1598.83, la part de C. Rép. 6. Un certain nombre d'ouvriers et d'apprentis reçurent pour un jour de travail, les ouvriers $2.25, les apprentis 1.50, en tout 893. S'il y avait 6 ouvriers et 7 apprentis de plus les ouvriers et les apprentis auraient reçu collectivement la même somme; combien y avait-il d'ou- vriers et combien d'apprentis ? Solution : 6 ouvriers de plus augmenteraient la somme totale de $2.25 X 6 - $13.50. 7 apprentis de plus augmenteraient la somme totale de 81.50 X 7 - $10.50. $93 \u002b $13.50 \u002b $10.50.- $117. $117 \u002b 2 - 858.50. 858.50 \u002b $2.25 - 26 ouvriers en dernier lieu. 26 - 6 - 20 ouvriers. Rép. 858.50 \u002b $1.50 - 39 apprentis en dernier lieu. 39 - 7 - 32 apprentis. Rép. Autrement: Avec 6 ouvriers et 7 bpprentis de plus, la somme allouée aux ouvriers se trouve augmentée de ($13.50-810.50 - ) 83 de plus que la somme allouée aux apprentis; avec cette augmentation de $3. les ouvriers reçoivent autant que les apprentis. Ainsi la différence entre la somme totale payée aux ouvriers et celle payée aux apprentis est de $3. (893 - 83) \u002b 2 - $90 \u002b 2 - $45, la part des ouvriers. $45 \u002b $3 - $48, la part des apprentis. $45 \u002b $2.25 - 20 ouvriers. Rép. 848 \u002b $1.50 - 32 apprentis. Rép. 7. A commence le commerce avec un capital de $3200; au bout de 3 mois B se met en société avec A et place $2400; trois mois plus tard, C est admis et place $1600. A quelle fraction du gain chaque associé a-t-il droit, à la ffn de l'année? $3200 X 12 - 838400. 82400 X 9 - 21600, $1600 x 6 - 9600. $38400 \u002b $21600\u002b9600 - $69600. A a droit à || - \"/» du gain. Rép. B a droit à g - */u du gain. Rép. C a droit à \" - '/ du gain. Rép. 8. Une terre a coûté 3% fois le prix d'une maison; ai on vend la maison à 10% de perte et la terre à 7'/% de gain, le produit total des",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 177 \u003cdeux ventes est de 83993.30. Trouvez le coût et le prix de vente de chaque Immeuble. Solution: Soit il, le coût de la maison, alors $3.75, le coût de la terre. il1- 80. 10 - 80. 90, le prix de vente de la maison; 83.75 X 1.07V1, - 84.01781/1, le prix de vente de la terre; 80. 90 \u002b 84. 0178/7, - $4,917W4/7, le prix de vente des deux immeu- 83993.30 \u002b 84.91784/7 - 8812, le coût de la maison. Rip. 8812 X 3ej - 83045, le coût de la terre. Rip. 812 X 0. 90 - 8730. 80, le prix de vente de la maison. Rip. $3045 X 81 .071/7 - 83262.50, prix de vente de la terre. Rip. ALGÈBRE 1. (a \u002bb) (a \u002bc) - a' \u002bab \u002b ac \u002bbc - a' \u002b(b \u002bc)a \u002b b. Ainsi le produit est composé du carré d'a plus le produit d'a par la somme de b et c, plus le produit de b et c. 2. (a \u002b5) (a \u002b2) -a a2 \u002b 7a \u002b 10. 3. Quels sont les facteurs de a' \u002b 23a \u002b 132 ? Rip. (a \u002b 12) (a \u002b 11). 4. Quels sont les facteurs de a' \u002b 12a \u002b Il ? Rip. (a \u002b 11) (a \u002b 1). 5. Quels sont les facteurs de a \u002b7a \u002b6 ? Rip. (a \u002b6( a \u002b1. 6.(a \u002b7) (a -5) .a2\u002b2a 35 - a \u002b(7 )\u002b 7 X5 7. (a \u002bb) (a - c) a - a c z-bc - a2 \u002b (b -c) a -bc. 8. (a \u002b12) (a - 9) - ? Rip. a' \u002b3a- 108. 9. (a \u002b12) (a -11) sRip. a' \u002b a -132. 10. (a \u002b5) (a-7) - a'-2a-35 - as\u002b (5-7) a-35. il. (a \u002b11) (a - 12) - ? as - a -132. 12. Quels sont les facteurs de à' \u002b 49a \u002b O00? Rip. (a \u002b 25) (a \u002b 24). 13. Quels sont les facteurs de a' \u002b a - 600 ? Rip. (a \u002b 25) (a - 24). 14. Quels sont les facteurs de a' - a - 600 ? Rip. (a - 25) (a \u002b24 ). 15. Quatre jeunes écoliers se partagent un panier contenant 147 pommes. Le premier en prend un certain nombre ; le seeond prend un nombre égal aux '/a du 1er ; le 3e autant que les 5/4 du lei et du 2e réunis ; alors il en reste au 4e, 3 de moins que le 3e en a pris. Trouvez la part de chacun. Solution : Soit 3x lapart duler ; alors /a de 3x,ou 2, la part du 2e ; !/4 de 3m \u002b2z - e/ de 5z - L'Tlapr d e3, la part du 4e. ,lpatd3e 1 M.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 3X 2X\u002b Le \u002bL\u0026r- 3- 147. 12Z \u002b8X\u002b 15X \u002b 15X-12 -588. 50Z- 588 \u002b 12 - 600. z - - 12. 3X - 3 X12- 36, la part du 1er. Rép. 2z - 2 x 12 -24, la part du 2e, LA?- 'à x 2 -45, la part du 3e. Rép. 45 -3 - 42, la part du 4e. Rép. 16. Il y a huit ans, la somme des âges de deux fila était le quart de l'âge de leur père; l'un a qjuatre ans de plus que l'autre et la bomme de leurs Ages actuels est les /a de celui de leur père. Trouvez l'âg des deux enfants. Solution - Soit x l'âge du plus jeune il y a 8 ana ; alors x \u002b 8 l'ige du plus jeune maintenant. z \u002b4, l'âgedu plus vieux il y a ans etxz\u002b 4\u002b 8 -xz\u002b 12, l'ige du plus vieux maintenant. 4 z\u002bx\u002b4 z\u002b1,Fg u èei iee z\u002b1 - z \u002b 24, l'âge du père maintenant. 3 ' ( z, \u002b8\u002bz\u002b 12. 3 (8z \u002b24) -5zx\u002b 40 \u002b5z \u002b60. 24z \u002b 72 - 5z \u002b 40 \u002b 5 \u002b 60. 24z-5z-5z -40\u002b60-72 -28. 14: - 28. *- 2/14 - 2. * \u002b8 - 2 \u002b8 - 10Oans, l'âge du plus jeune. Rép. * \u002b 12 -2 \u002b 12 - 14 ana, l'âge de l'ainé. Rép. 17. !!'- - 2 -3a 3z - i 2a -3a' - 2a -3. 3z -2a- 3 \u002b4 - 2a\u002bl1. zx~' Rép. 18. z \u002byv -a. z -y - b. 2z -.a \u002bb. z X Rép. 2y a - b. - -.. Rép. 19. (1) az \u002b by, - ab. (2) 2az \u002b 3bi, Chassant le dénom-inateur dans 2 ou: (3) 4az \u002b6by - Sab. Multipliant (1) par 4 on a (4) 4az \u002b 4by - 4ab. Soustrayant (4) de (3) on a:",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 179 2by - ab 06 =- -. R4p. Substituantl la valeur d'y à Y dans (1) on a: Chassant le dénominateur 2 on a:- (à) 2az \u002b ab - 2ab. Divisant (à) par a on a: (6) 2x \u002b b - 2b. 2z 2b -b - b. X-~ Rip. 20. Si on ajoute Il au numérateur d'une fraction elle sera égale à 2; mais ai on ajoute 7 au numérateur et qu'on double le dénominateur elle sera égale à %j. Trouvez la fraction. Soluiion: soite, la fraction. (1) s\u002b 1.2 (2) /- Chaasnt les dénominateurs en multipliant (1) par y et (2) par 4y on a : (3) x \u002b Il - 2y. et (4) 2z \u002b 14 - 3y. Multipliant (3) par (2) on a : (5) 2z \u002b 22 - 4y. Soustrayant (4) de (5) on a : (6) S - y ou y - 8. Rép. Substituant 16 la valeur de 2y à 2y dans (3) ona : (3) x\u002b Il - 16. D'où (7) x - 16 -l - 5. R4p. et - /.Rtp. 21. Trouvez la somme des dix premiers termes de la série: 2-1\u002b2.2\u002b28.......................................... Solution:M A l'inspection nous constatons que c'est une progression arithmétique décroissante ; que la différence ou d- Noua avons a le 1er terme - ü .; la formul pour trouver la somme des termes m d'une progression arithmétique et S - \u002b1\u003eM d Il nous manque 1 ou le dernier terme : la formule pour 1 dans une pro- gression décroissante, est 1 - a - (n - 1) d : donc 1 -1 (10- li- S - ~j~ U1)IO/ (2a-I)5 Rép. 22. Le périmètre d'un rectangle surpasse de 4 pouces le périmètre d'un carré, et cependant la surface du carré surpass de 4 pouces carrés celle du rectangle. Trouvez les dimensions du rectangle, si le carré a 110 pouces de côté. I.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENI PRIMAIRE Solution : 1102 - 12100 pouces carrés, surface du carré. 12100 - 4 - 12096 pouces carrés, surface du rectangle. 110 × 4 - 440 pouces linéaires, périmètre du carré. 440 \u002b 4 - 444 pouces linéaires, périmètre du rectangle. 444 \u002b 2 - 222, somme de la longueur et de la largeur du rectangle. Soit 2x, la différence entre la longueur et la largeur du rectangle; alors x la moitié de la différence. (222 \u002b 2) \u002b z - 111 \u002b z, la longueur du rectangle. (222 \u002b 2) - z - 111 - , la largeur du rectangle. (111 \u002b x) (111 - z) - la surface du rectangle - 12096. 12321 -i - 12096. -z - 12096 - 12321 - -225. e - 225. z - plue ou moins 15. 111 \u002b x - 111 \u002b 15 - 126, la longueur du rectangle. Rép. 111 - x - 111 - 15 - 96, la largeur du rectangle. Rip. GEOMETRIE 1. Les côtés adjacents d'un parallélogramme ont 120 et 231 pieds de longueur et la distance perpendiculaire entre les côtés les plus courts est de 77 pieds. Quelle est la distance perpendiculaire entre les autres ettés? Solution : 120 X 77 - 9240, surface du -parallélogramme; 9240 \u002b 231 - 40 pieds, la distance entre les autres côtés. Rép. 2. Les diagonales d'un parallélogramme ont 34 et 24 pieds et un des côtés a 25 pieds, quelle en est la surface ? Solution : Les diagonales d'un parallélogramme le partagent en quatre triangles égaux en surface. 24 \u002b 2 - 12, un des côtés d'un des triangles; 34 \u002b 2 - 17, un autre des côtés du triangle; 25 le troisième côté de ce triangle. (12 \u002b 17 \u002b 25) \u002b 2 - 54 \u002b 2 - 27. 27 - 12 - 15. 27 - 17 - 10. 27-25 - 2. 27 X 15 X 10 X 2 - 8100. La racine carrée de 8100 - 90, la surface du triangle donné, 90 x 4 - 360 pieds carrés, la surface du parallélogramme. Rép. 3. Le loyer d'une terre en forme de trapèse, à $10. l'acre, est de 8279.50. Si les côtés parallèles ont 17 chaînes 37 chaînons et 15 chatnes et 13 chaînons, quelle est la distance perpendiculaire entre ces côtés? Solution : 8279.50 \u002b 10 - 27.95 acres, 279.5 chaînes carrées, surface du champ.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 181 17 chaines, 37 chaînons \u002b 15 chaines, 13 chalnons - 32.5 chaînes de longueur. Rép. (279.5 X 2) \u002b 32.5 - 559 ÷ 32.5 - 17.2 chaines - 17 chafnes, 20 chaînons. Rép. 4.-Les diagonales d'un quadrilatère sont pendiculaires l'une à l'autre, et elles sont dans le rapport de 3 à 5. Si la surface du quadri- latère est égale aux¾4 d'une acre, trouvez la longueur de chaque diagonale. Solution: Dans une acre il y a 4840 verges carrées; e de 4840 - 3 X 1210 - 3630 verges carrées, surface du quadrilatère. (3 X 5) \u002b 2 -15 \u002b 2 - 7.5 verges carrées, surface d'un qua- drilatère, dont les diagonales auraient 3 et 5 e res.r Les figures semblables sont entre elles comme les carrés de leurs lignes homologues. Soient x la grande diagonale et y la petite. 36 W ou - = ou i' - 484. x2 - 12100. x - la racine carrée de 12100 - 110 verges, la grande diagonale. Rép. £ - § ou = 484. = la r. c. de 484 - 22. y 22 x 3 - 66 verges, la petite diagonale. Rép. 5. Une plaque carrée de métal a 9 pieds de côté. Dans cette plaque on découpe une plaque circulaire de 3 pieds 6 pouces de rayon. Trouvez la valeur du reste à 80.29 le pied carré. Note.-Pi - 22/ Solution : 3.5' X 22/, = 12.25 X -/r - 1.75 X 22 - 38.5, la surface de la plaque circulaire. 09 2.38.5 81 - 38.5 = 42.5 pouces carrés, ce qui reste; 42.5 X 0.29 - 812.32y/2. Rép. 6. La circonférence d'un cercle est de 220 pouces et la distance de A, un point extérieur, à O le centre est de 37 pouces. Trouvez la longueur de la tangente tirée de A à la circonférence. Note-Pi - '/ 220 \u002b 22/7 - 220 X 7/2 - 10 x 7 - 70, le diamètre du cercle. 70 \u002b 2 - 35 le rayon. La tangente est perpendiculaire au rayon au point de contact. 37' - 352 - tangente 2. 1369 - 1225 - tangente 2. 144 - tangente 2. tangente - la r. c. de 144 - 12. Rép. 7. Quel est le rayon d'un cercle dont la surface est égale à celle d'un hexagone régulier de Il pouces de etté? Note.-Pi - 2/ Solution : i? x 2.59808 - 121 X 2.59808 - 314.36768. I. ft",
         "182 L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 314.36768 \u002b 22/ - 314.36768 x '/2 - 100.02608. La racinecarrée de 100.02608 - 10. pouces, le rayon. Rép. 8. La contenance d'un vaisseau en forme de tronc de cene est 37 gallons. Trouvez la profondeur de ce vaisseau si les diamètres des bases ont un pied 4 pouces et un pied de longueur. Note.-Pi - 3.1416.-Supposons: 1 gallon - 277.25 pouces cubes. Solution : 1 pied 4 pouces - 16 pouces ; 1 pied - 12 pouces. [162 \u002b 122 \u002b (12 X 16)]. 7854 - 464.9568. 277.25 X 37 - 10258.25, volume du tronc de cône en pouces. 10258.25 X 3 - 30774.75 pouces cubes ; 3 fois le volume du trone de cône. 30774.75 \u002b 464.9568 - 66.19 pouces de longueur, la profondeur du tronc de cône. Rép. J. AHERN. LE CABINET DE L'INSTITUTEUR POURQUOI DE LA TIRE A LA SAINTE-CATHERINE? Est-ce bien à la sainte Catherine du 25 novembre que la vénérable Marguerite Bourgeoys ouvrit son école à Montreal ?-Suites regrettables d'une erreur conndse par un historien-Notes hagiographi. qus-origine de la tire : son saymbole. \"Les deux ouvrages dont vous me recommandiez la lecture il y a une couple de mois, je les ai lus, certes, avec grand profit et ils figureront désormais sur les rayons de ma biblio- thèque, car j'ai résolu de l'enrichir chaque année d'un certain nombre de volumes sérieux qui soient de nature à m'instruire, à éclairer ou échauffer mon patriotisme et à affermir mes croyances religieuses.\" Par cette parole, mon interlocuteur, un excellent jeune homme, faisait allusion au volume parfaitement documenté et bien écrit de \" L'Instruction au Canada sous le régime français\", par l'abbé Amédée Gosselin, et à celui de l'\"Histoire du Canada\", cours supérieur, par les Frères des Ecoles Chrétiennes, manuel fortement recommandé et d'une lecture attachante. \" J'ai trouvé l'Histoire du Canada si intéressante, continua mon jeune ami, que je la relis de nouveau ; je suis rendu à l'endroit où il est dit que la vénérable Marguerite Bourgeoys a ouvert sa première école le jour de la sainte Catherine, 30 avril 1658. N'y a-t-il pas là une faute d'impression ? La sainte Catherine, c'est le 25 novembre et non le 30 avril.\" -Vous faites erreur, ami, vos connaissances hagiographiques, vos lectures de la vie des saints laissent trop à désirer; et je vous dirai à ce sujet que si jamais vous réussissez à vous procurer, pour votre bibliothèque, la collection des Petits Bollandistes, vous ferez, à coup sûr, une belle acquisition. Plus d'une fois j'ai eu occasion de la consulter, notamment dans le but de vérifier, un jour, les dires d'un touriste européen à propos précisément d'une sainte Catherine, de sainte Catnerine de Bologne. Bien qu'il n'ait jamais été embaumé, le corps de cette illustre sainte, morte en 1463, a toujours été préservé de toute corruption. Il est assis depuis plus de 400 ans dans une chaise abbatiale et les religieuses Clarisses chargées d'en changer les vetements aux jours de certaines grandes fétu, sont touchées de la suave odeur qu'ils répandent. N'est-ce pas que voilà des détails qui intéressent? Or, ils abondent dans les Petite Bollandistes.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 183 Il n'est Pa Peris non plus d'ignorer l'immense influence qu'a exercée sainte Catherine e Sienne dont la fête ne célèbre, chaque année, le 3 ; avril car de toutes parts, princes, éuques et cardinaux venaient la consulter. Et c'est bien le 30 avril \"1657 que la vénérable Bourgeoys a ouvert son école à Montréal. On peut aisément donner la raison du choix de cette date : le 30 avril au soir, n'est-ce pa l'ouverture du mois de Marie ? Et qui dira E dévotion à la Vierge des viere de l'admirable fondatrice de la Congrégation Notre-Dame? Et sainte Catherine de Sienne, que l'Eglise honore ce jour-là, ne la repréisente-t-on pas tenant un chapelet à la main et agenouillée aux pieds de la Vierge bénie à côté de saint Dominique, pour rappeler qu'après le fondateur de la dévotion au Rosaire, nulle n'a travaillé à la répandre avec autant d'efficacité que cette incomparable sainte. Le culte à la Reine du ciel de la vénérable Marguerite Bourgeys, voilà, avec grande plausibilité, me semble-tiel le motif qui lui inspira de choisir le 30 avril pour ouvrir à Montréal sa première école. e -Comment expliquer alors qu'un ouvrage aussi sérieux aussi bien fait que lInstruction au Canada \" enseigne, comme autrefois presque tout le mode, m'a-t-on dit, que l'ouverture de l'école en question se fit le \"25 novembre\" et non le 30 avril t -C'est ici le heu d rappeler une page aussi instructive qu'amusante de notre éminent historien, l'honorable Thoms Chapais, page qui fait ressortir les conhequences tout à fait regrettables d'une erreur commise par un historiecar vraisemnblablemient cette erreur ser reproduite par nombre d'écrivains qui suivront. L'article de M. Chapais parut dans la Nouvelle-France dès 1902, c'est-à-dire au berceau même de cette excellente revue ; il avait trait à une prétendue lettre que Montcalm mourant aurait adressée au brigadier Townshend et dont notre historien conteste l'authenticité. Un érudit à qui faisait défaut le sens de la critique historique, l'abbé Bois en possession de cette lettre apocryphe, en aurait adressé une copie au R. P. Martin J., qui, le premier, dans un ouvrage paru en 1867, la lança dans le publie. Rien de divertisant comme cette revue faite par l'auteur de l'Intendant l'alon, des écrivains qui, durant quarante ans, embottèrent le pas à la suite du P. Martin et au nombre desquels il se met lui-même en scene ; car en 1882, dans un article des udle aomre Canadiennes, M. Chapais,alors au début de sa brillante carrière d'historien, \"y était allé lui aussi de sa petite phrase\" au sujet de la fameuse lettre de Montcao que,\"tiurelmenl ne se fit pas faute de reproduire. Pour le ca qui nous concerne, le grand coupable, c'est l'historien Paillon dont les ouvra- ges, nul ne l'ignore, furent publié sous le voile de l'anonymat. Au tome 1er de sa \"Vie de la Sour Bourgeoys\",on cite de la vénérable fondatrice cenyassA relatif à son école \" la entrai le jour de Sainte-Catherine,\" que complète Faillon par eette date entre parethèsy: \"(25 novembre 1657)\". Comment ne pas admettre l'asertion dun auteur dont la bonne foi était universellemt reconnue ! Aussi ensignait-on un peu partout, il n'y a pas un quart de siècle, que l'usage de faire de la tire le 25 novembre venait de ce que cette date était le jour anniversaire de l'ouverture de sa première école par Marguerite Bourgeoye, devenu un jour de réjouissances. ~Comment s'aperçut-on qu'on faisait fausse route ? -Faillon lui-même, dans un autre de se ouvrae,nous met en garde contre sa propre affirmation au sujet de la sainte Catherine. Voici d'ailleurs ce qu'il écrit dans son \"'Histoire de la colonie française en Canada\", vol. I, page 286: tenez, lises cette note: \" Dans la vie de la Soeur Bourgeoy nous avons dit, tome 1er, page 93, d'après un extrait incomplet de ses manuscrits, qu'elle était entrée dans cette maison, (étable) le jour de sainte Catl.erine ; et nous avions conjecturé que ce jour devait être le 25 novembre. Mais, ayant eu occasion d'examiner par nous-même les écrits autographes de la Soeur Bourgeoyanous y aPs vu qu'elle ajoi te au nom sainte Catherine, celui de Sienne, quon avait ngli de rane danm l'écrit dont nous parlons. C'est donc le 30 avril et non le 25novembre qu'ont comn encé les écoles de la Congrégation à Vile-Marie.\" Ces dires de l'historien sont con. triés en effet par les écrits autographes auxquels il fait allusion. I.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE -Mais alors pourquoi de la tire le 25 novembre ? -C'est que ce jour-là l'Église honore sainte Catherine d'Alexandrie, la patronne no,- seulement des étudiants en philosophie pour avoir, dans une controverse rligieuse, trion- phé avec l'aide du ciel des cinquante philosophes les plus renommée d'Alexandrie, mais patronne également des écolières, car elle fut martyrisée dès l'ge de dix-huit ans, offrant dans sa vie le modèle accompli d'une profonde et sincère piété jointe à beaucoup d'ardeur dans l'acquisition des connaisances tant religieuses que profanes. N'était-il pas alors naturel, pour les bonnes sours de la Congrégation, de célébrer chaque année le retour de cette fête du 25 novembre, par un congé ou une séance récréative; par la distribution de friandises, de douceurs et surtout du bonbon par excellence, la tire à exquise saveur. -Mais d'où provient-elle cette tire ? Quelle en est l'origine ? Les sauvages l'ont-ils connue ? -Je ne le crois pas, car il n'en est nullement fait mention dans les historiens que j'ai consultés. Toutefois, sur cette question, il existe une tradition dans la Congrégation Notre- Dame. Vous n'ignorez pas les divers procédés employée dans la chasse aux oiseaUK: ainsi il y a l'appeau, espèce de sifet qui imite les cris de certaines de leurs espèces; le miroir dont les reflets attirent surtout les alouettes; la glu dont ne peut se dépêtrer l'imprudent petit oiseau qui vient reposer ou percher sur le gluau, etc. Or, l'héroique sainteté de Marguerite lourgeoys ne l'empêchait nullement d'être fort ingénieuse, d'avoir beaucoup d'initiative,et ce serait elle qui aurait inventé le bonbon du pays pour attirer et retenir à son école ces espèces d'oiseaux sauvages qu'étaient les jeunes indiennes, qui s'y laissaient prendre comme les petits oiseaux ordinaires à la glu. Puis les excellentes Sours de la Congrégation multiplièrent rapidement leurs fondations du vivant même de leur vénérable fondatrice et, partout où elles s'établirent, propagèrent indirectement aux foyers des familles de leurs élèves la coutume de fêter le 25 novembre de chaque année en se divertissant à étirer et à savourer une tire aussi délicieuse que celle dont raffolaient, dont - délectaient leurs enfanta au couvent des bonnes sours. On comprend aisément que de proci e en proche cette coutume se soit établie par tout le pays pour devenir avec le temps l'une de nos traditions qu'il est bon de conserver, car elle fait passer agréablement la soirée et resserre les liens de l'amitié entre les familles réunies à cette occasion. -D'autant plus que la tire est un symbole, s'il faut en croire Auguste qui nous a tant amusés la dernière année que les circonstances m'ont permis d'assister aux séances du cercle C. Je me rappelle encore quelques-uns des passages de son ébouriffante allocution à une séance de la sainte Catherine. \" Si un auteur latin, Plaute, a chanté la marmite ; si Boileau a chanté un pupitre, pourquoi ne chanterais-je pas notre mets national par excellence, la tire, la belle et bonne tire dorée. La tire est appelée à faire cesser les discussions politiques, rouges et bleus oublieront leurs rancunes personnelles, fraterniseront et se donneront la main devant un plat de tire. . La tire colle, elle adhère aux doigts, elle est donc un symbole, le symbole de l'union qui doit régner entre nous, qui nous doit faire resserrer les rangs, nous coller pour ainsi dire les uns aux autres,afin de ne faire qu'un et être tout-puissante dans la revendication de nos droits. ..Je vous le répète, l'avenir du Canada est dans la tire, car la tire préche l'union et l'union ne connatt pas les obstacles qui nous empêcheraient d'aller de l'avant.. .\" Mais je ne veux pas abuser davantage de votre temps et je vous remercie infiniment des intéressantes explications que je viens de recevoir. Toutefois je ne tarderai guère à revenir, car il est encore pour moi plus d'un point obscur sur lequel je désire être éclairé. LUCIEN SERRE. Québec, novembre 1918. a",
         "w L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE \" AU SERVICE DE MON PAYS \" CoNF*RENCu, DsURs5, RéCIs, MÉNoRIEs, par C.-J. Magnan. Voici on quels termes, dans une lettre à l'auteur, Mgr L.-A. Paquet, de l'Université Uaval, apprécie cet ouvrage : \"Cet ouvrage témoigne non seulement de l'esprit profondément chrétien qui vous anime et qui fait de votre vie publique une aorte de sacerdoce, mais aussi de votre haute comptence professionnelle. Vous parles de 'éducation en homme qui sait son métier, et qui, par études et s longue expérience, y a acquis une autorité culière et reconnue. Un souffle patriotique est répandu dan toutes ces pages où le des jeunes \u0026mes qu'il faut instruire le dispute au culte du pays qu'il faut servir et à l'amour de la religion qu'il faut conserver et propager. \"Vous vous montres vrai*nt un serviteur éclairé et dévoué de I'Egliae et de la Patrie\". L.-A. PAqUmm\", Pire. (1) Au S We de mon POP, volume de 80 0 pge, Illustré. (conférence., discours, récits de voYe , etc.), Par C.J. ntal. . PIa de Bir Lmer Gouin. En rente ches Garneau, à Québec et B-eucenn à )4ontrWa. L'ETE DE LA ST-MARTIN Reproduit de Aux Sources Canadima, Joli volume qui en est déJà à sa deuxièm, édition. C'et jeudi le 9 novembre. Noue sommes en plein c étur de lé' de la \u0026a -M\"n. Je quitte Montréal, Par le Pacifique canadien, en destination de St-Jean d'Iberville. Le soleil brille et jette a clarté douce et tiède sur les champs, pendant que ceux-ci défilent de chaque côté du convoi qui serpente rapidement, suivi d'un long panache de fumée. A chaque minute le paysage se transforme. Après avoir traversé le boulevard de m .ieurs le Anglais, West- mount, Montreal-West bt Highland, on entre en rase campagne. Le fleuve forme une ligne de démarcation naturelle entre les groupes urbain et leu paroisses rurales. Voici maintenant que l'on sillonne les riantes campagnes d'Adirondack, de St.Constant, de 88-Philippe et de l'Acadi-l'Acadie te rameau de l'autre, là-bas, au pays d'Evangéline. I champs sont dépouillés de leurs moissons : plus d'épis jaunes; plus de tiges vertes ; à peine quelques feuillu, déjà mordues par les gelée d'automne, restent-elles accrochées aux arbres. De rares laboureurs s'attardent dans le prairies et les chaumes et préparent les guérets pour la psmene prochaine. En les voyant, ces braves, on se surprend à fredonner le \"Credo du pasn \". Et le train file toujours . m'emportant dans ma réverie quand, brusquement, je suis rappelé à la réalité par la voix d'un \"t man\" qui hurle :-\"St. John I St. John \"I e Il est midi. Le soleil a atteint son zénith. Dan un instant, il commencera sa dégringo- lade vers l'occident. A cette pensée, il me semble que déjà l'astre du jour est moins brillant, moins chaud, mois caressant. De petit. nuages se forment et estompent le firrament; dan un rien de tempe, les clartés terrestres ont disparu. Tout sassombrit et l'on se surprend à regretter le caprices de l'été de la St-Martin dont l'humeur, comme celle d'une belle dame de ce bau monde, change plus d'une fois dans vi utre heures Ossgelanti). Ce matin, l'aurore était souriante et pleine de promesses pour la journée. Vous voue senties fiers de vivre prce que vous respiriez à pleins poumons l'ozone qui renou- I.",
         "186 L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE voie le forces, quand, tout à coup, cr i le soleil vous quitte et son départ jette comme un voile de deuil sur tout ce qui voua environne. Oubliant le jouissances du matin, votre Ame se chagrine de la tristesse du moment parce que ce noment est le signe avant-coureur d'un orage qui se prépare. Il pleut. De larges gouttes d'eau tombent lentement sur le sol et sur le toit des demeures. Partout, les larmes célestes ruisellent. La fine poussière du matin n'est plus qu'une sale boue. Les piétons se font de plus en plus rares. La rue est bientôt déserte, pendant qu'à trois heures à peine, les fanaux s'allument au dehors et que les ampoules électriques jettent leur clarté jaunâtre à l'intérieur. Voyez comme l'été de la St-Martin est plein de trattrises ! A neuf heures, soleil brillant; on respire tout à son aise; on fait un brin de cour aux muses; on brode mille projets d'avenir; on se sent jeune, plein d'espérance. A midi, le soleil semble déjà regretter mes gentillesses du matin ; il se retire derrière un rideau aqueux et nous plante là, nous, pauvres terriens, sans même une heure d'avis, ni un mot d'adieu. Il est tout de même un peu rude, ce gaillard-là! ne trouves-vous pas ? Puis, quelques instants après, les cataractes du ciel s'ouvrent et nous voilà noyés de tous côtés. Il fait noir comme dans un four, dans les maisons comme dans les coeurs. ENVOI : Soleil que j'adorais ce matin, je ne sais ce qui me retient de te lancer des impré- cations, ce soir. L'hommage de ma colère te sera sans doute agréable encore, parce qu'il te prouvera tout l'amour que j'ai pour toi, et aussi combien sombres sont les heures, quand ta riante clarté et ta chaleur bienfaisante me font défaut. G.-E. MAnquis. LES ADJECTIFS QUALIFICATIFS PEUVENT-ILS AVOIR UN COMPLEMENT ? Oui, les adjectifs qualfincatifs peuvent avoir des compléments. Exemples: \" Ce père est utile à sa famille\"; famille est complément de tile. \" Je suis anxieuse de recevoir de vos nouvelles\"; recevoir est complément de anxieuse. ERRATA A corriger dans les articles de M. Lucien Serre sur Louis Fréchette : Juin 1918, page 543, fie: \" il dut exulter \", au lieu de exalter ; septembre 1918, page 62, 14e paragraphe, lire \"ainsi la fille, au lieu de aussi. R. I. P. Nous recommandons aux prières de nos lecteurs, Melle Emilia Paradis, institutrice, décédée à Plessisville, dans la première quinzaine d'octobre, après une longue et tructueuse carrière dans l'enseignement. Melle Paradis était une institutrice modèle qui avait su mériter la confiance et le respect des parents et des autorités scolaires. Melle Paradis enseignanit depuis vingt ans dans la mène municipalité.",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 187 LA PAIX EST PROCHE Dimanche, le 6 octobre, arrivait la grosse nouvelle d'une demande de paix venant de l'Plemagne. Le 7, cette nouvelle était confirmée; le prince Maximi de Bade, au nom du gouvernement de rAllemagne, et non au.nom de l'empereur Guillaume, acceptait le rogamm delapaix énoncé par le président des Etata-UJnis dans un message au Congrès le 8 janvier 1918 programme renouvelé et expliqué dans le discours de M.Wilson,le 27 sep- tembre dernier. le conditions posées par le président des Etats-Unis sont au nombre de quatorse. Il et utile de lus citer ici. 1.-Traits de paix publies, sans ententes secrètes; 2-uaberté absolue des mers en temps de paix comme en temps de guerre, excepté quand elles peuvent être fimées par un acte international;- 3.-Disparition de toutes les barrières économiques entr les nations s'associant pour maintenir la paix ; 4.-Des garanties sur la diminution des armements au plus bas point assurant la surveillance domestique ; \u0026-Ajustement impartial des réclamations des colonies, basé sur le principe que lu peu- ples en cause ont des droits égaux au gouvernement . 6.-Evaouation de tout le territoire russe et liberté de développement politique russe; 7.-Evacuation de la Belgique ; 8.-Evacuation du territoire français et redressement du tort de l'Alsce-Lorraine; 7.-Rajustement des frontières italiennes basé sur les lignes de la nationalité ; 1.-iberté de développement des principes d'autonomie en Autriche-Hongrie. o l.-u a uation de la Roumanie, de la Serbie et du Montenegro, et garanties pour tous lusétata bakanquen ; o2.-uouverainet turque sur toutes les parties de lempire Ottoman et autonomie pour les autres nationalités;9 13.-Une Pologne indépendante avec accès à la mer; e4.-Aoiation générale des nations pour de garanties mutuelles d'indépendance et d'intégrité territoriode aux grands comme aux petits état. En réponse à la proposition de paix de l'Allemagne, le président Wilson a exigé : 1. léva- cuation des territoires envahis par les armées austro-allemandes ; 2. l'acceptation non seulement du progamme cidesus comme base de discussion, mais aussi l'acceptation des propos\"mi que renferme ce programme ; 3. que les propositions de l'Allemagne soient faites au nom du \"peuple allemand\" et non au nom du \"militarisme \". Le 13 octobre, le prince Maximilien de Bade, \"au nom du gouvernement et du peuple allemand,\" répond à M. Wilson que toute ses propositions sont acceptées. A la date où nous écrivons, 15 octobre, le président Wilson n'a pas encore fait onnaltre mon opinion au sujet de la dernière réponse de l'Allemagne. Avant querien de définitif soit fixé, le président Wilson devra consulter les gouvernements de 'Entente : France, Angleterre Italie. la plupart des journaux américains et mème européens, demandent la capitulation de l'Allemagne, a condition. Qu'arrivera-t-il? nous le saurons peut-être dans quelques heures. du13 o .-e président Wilson donne une réponse catégorique à la note de l'Allemane du 13m: \"lP de paix avec l'autocratie militaire allemande; pas d'arnistice tant que les boches multiplieront les atrocités su terre et sur mer ; il est parfaitement entendu que lévacuation et les conditions de l'arnistice sont des sujets qui doivent être la u jug- ment et à l'avis des conseils militaires de lEntente \". Qu fera lAleane ? En attendant, les années de Foch avancent toujours, refoulant les Allemands vers le Rhin. I.",
         "188 L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE BIBLIOGRAPHIE UNE PAGE D'mlIWIRE a L'ÊousE DE Rmousxr.-C'est le récit desbelles ftes qui eurent lieu à Rimouski, lors des noces d' nt épISCO'pae et des noces d'or sacerdotales de S. C. Mgr A.-A. Bais, évêque de Rimod. C'est en même temps un document historique de grande valeur. Nos remerciements à l'auteur pour l'envoi de cet intéressant volume. NOMINATION Par arrêté en conseil, en date du 2 octobre dernier, M. J.-G. Tremblay, du Départe- ment de l'Instruction publique, a été nommé assistant de l'Inspecteur général des écoles catholiques. AVIS AUX ABONNES PAYANTS La date indiquée sur la bande d'adressé équivaut au reçu de l'abonnement. A l'avenir, aucun autre reçu ne sera envoyé et prière de vérifier si la date est conforme à la dernière remise faite. Ceux qui n'ont pas encore payé leur abonnement sont priés de se mettre en règle au plus tot avec l'administration ou de prévenir qu'ils discontinuent l'abonnement. Adresse : L'Enseignement Primaire, casier postal 125, Haute-Ville, Québec. OUVRAGES APPROUVES PAR LE COM ITE CATHOLIQUE Emenut d'alplbre, par les Frères de l'Insnietion chrdtiene. Un volume de XVI, 572 pages. Prix : 70 sous. Cet ouvrage a été composé pour les élèves du Cours supérieur de l'Enseignement pri- maire, ceux des Ecoles normales d'instituteurs et d'institutrices, aine que les candidats aux divers brevets délivrés par le Bureau central des Examinateurs entol ues de la Pro- vince de Québec. Il peut également servir à préparer l'examen d'admission à l'Ecole ude Montréal et les concoure établis prla Coennission du Service civil du anada.t supplment, traitant des és, quantitée negatives, de l'indétermi- nation et de limpsiiiédans les prbèe, de la discussion des équations du premier et du second der,en fait un manuel sufiant pour la préparation du baccalauréat de l'Ensei- gnement seodieclassique. B contient un grand nombre d'exercices d'application -plus de 2,600-lassés, autant que possible, par ordre de difficulté. Nations de frigonometrie pratigue, par les mêmnes. Un volume de IV, 96 pages. Prix : 30 sous. Cet ouvrage est spécialement adap:é au programme du Brevet académique des Ecoles normales de la Provinte de Québee et à celui du Baccalauréat classique. Il contient 368 exercices gradués. Les parties du mattre, de ces deux ouvese sont sous presse. S'adresser à la Procure des Frères de l'instruction chrétienne, Laprairie. 'I",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 189 L'INVENTAIRE AGRICOLE DE 1918 afsULTAT osNlU. Les titulaire@ du écoles rul qui ont pris une part active dans la distribution et le ta des cartes agricoles, à la fin de juin dernier, aimeront sans doute à connattre le resul- tat de cette enquête. Qu'il me soit tout d'abord permis d'ofrir publiquement à tous le participant de cet inventaire mes sincères remerciements pour leur généreu et intelligent conouil. Le nombre de cartes remplies et retournées s'est élevé à plus de 35,000, ce qui est une augmentation de 5,000 sur la quantité reçue en 1917. N eut été l circonstances spéciales qui ont coincidé avec notre enquête, le nombre de cartes remplies aurait san doute été beaucoup plus nombreux. Quoi qu'il en soit, ces 35,000 ceartes, venant de toutes les municipalités de la province, ont permis de faire une évaluation presque exacté des superfiies en culture et du nombre d'animaux domestiquan Dès que le résultat de la compilation de ces cearte sera complété, nous le ferons nnare par la voix de l'Eneignement primaie. Fidles à la promesse que nous avions faite aux titulaires des écoles, le printemps dernier, nous avons été heureux d'adresser, à la fin des vacances, plus de 2,000 volumes de récompense à quiconque a retourné 50 des cartes bien remplies et signées. n r est des comtés o 3 la moitié de cultivateurs ont répondu à notre appel; d'autres, da lprprind1 u3,1mr,1su ,1sr.La proportion Mye P l province entière, est d'environ 1 sur 4 cultivateurs. l neu Provinces du Canada ont adopté, la première fois cette année, une méthode à peu prés identique d'enquête gicole annuelle. an être la première, quant au poureen- tage des réponses reçues, la province de Qu'ec occupera un rang trés convenable. Nous espérons arriver à mieux faire l'an prochain avec laide ds instituteurs et des institutrices des éole\u0026 ruaesi cette malheureuse guerre peut cesser et la paix rétablir dans les esprits la confiance qui les empêche aujourd'hui, dans bien des cas, de juger ce mouvement à son mérite réel et suivant le avantages qui peuvent en découler pour les travailleu du sol. G.-E. MARQuIS, Québec, 23 octobre 1918. hef du Bunau des ERRATUM l vraison d'octobre 1918, page 91, 10e paraagphe, au lieu de J.-D. Paguin, lir M. J.-E. Paquin est professeur à I'Ecoh normale de St-Hyac'thEm LE REPRESENTANT DU PAPE AU CANADA Le 18 octobre dernier, arrivait à Ottaa Son Excellence Mgr Pietro di Maria, évêque de Catanzaro, le nouveau délégué apostolique du Canada Mfgr Pietro di Mia, rempla Mgr Stagni, retourné à Rome, Au nom du personner enseignant dus cies primaire de la province de Québec, noua souhaitons la plus coniale nvenue au représeant du Sait-Pére. I.",
         "190 L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE COMMUNAUTE DANS LE DEUIL Les Révérendes Seurs de Jésus-Marie du couvent de Sillery ont perdu leur supérieure provinciale, Seur Sainte-Croix. Cette éducatrice distinguée est décédée le 23 du mois de septembre dernier, après une longue et fructueuse carrière. A PROPOS D'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE Au cours de septembre et octobre derniers, il est paru dans le Devair, de Montréal des lettres très intéremantes sur l'enseignement primaire. Ces lettres, signées par M. P.-E. Lamarche, G. De Serrre, l'abbé J.-O. Maurice et Mgr F.-X. Ross, renferment des rensei- gnements précieux et des mises au point bien marquées. Dans le Devoir du 28 septembre, Mgr Ross, rapporteur du sous-comité du programme d'études, sous-comité nommé par le Comité catholique du Conseil de l'Instruction publique. dit que cette commission est à l'oeuvre et qu'elle fera connattre bientôt les améliorations qu'elle croit raisonnable de suggérer à qui de droit. Mgr Rom est d'avis qu'un programme d'études ne se rédige pas à la hate... en bigyclette. M. l'abbé Maurice, dans une série de lettres remarquables, rappelle que plusieurs ré- formes proposées se trouvent dans le programme actuel du comité catholique. Les lettres de MM. Lmarche et De Serres renferment certaines suggestions qui préoc- cupent déjà le personnel enseignant et qui méritent d'être étudiées avec impartialité. Dans la Reee Trimestrielle Canadienne du mois d'août dernier, M. l'abbé Emile Chartier publie, sous le titre de \" Choses d'enseignement \", une étude très élaborée sur l'unification des quatre sortes d'écoles indispensables à tout système d'enseignement bien organisé, savoir : écoles primaires, écoles intermédiaires, école; supérieures et école. normales. P.-E. LAMARCHE Le 13 octobre, M. Lamarche, avocat de talent, patriote sincère, défenseur courageux des droits de s race, est décédéà l'Age de 36 ans, après quelques jours de maladie seulement. M. Lamarche rêvait pour sa race la supériorité intellectuelle: \" l'infériorité,disait-il souvent, ne devrait pas être permise aux Canadiens français.\" M. Lsmarche est resté fidèle jusqu'à la fin à ses croyances catholiques. Ne l'oublions pas dans nos prières. SIR P.-E. LEBLANC Nous avons le regret d'annoncer la mort de Sir P.-E. Leblanc, Lieutenant-Gouverneur de la Province de Québec, arrivée le 18 octobre dernier. Sir Leblane était gd \u003cle 64 ans. Ancien élève de l'Ecole normale Jacques-Cartier, ancien instituteur, M. Leblanc entra ensuite au Barreau. Il consacra 26 années à la politique provinciale: durant cette période, il fut deux fois président de la Chambre. Le distingué député avait succédé à Sir François Langelier, comme Lieutenant-Gouverneur, en février 1915. Nous le recoin- mandons aux prières de nos lecteurs. FEU CHARLES GILL A Montréal, le 16 octobre, est décédé M. Charles Gill, professeur de dessin à l'Ecole normale Jacques-Cartier, à lAge de 47 am. M. Gill était peintre et poète de talent. Il étudia la peinture à Paris sous le peintre Gérôme. M. Gill laisse une euvre artistique de valeur. Nous demandons à nos lecteurs de se souvenir de M. Gill dans leurs prières. I",
         "L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE i LECONS DE CHOSES \"Ce n'est pas aOP de sauvegarder des réalités vulr que ces hommes soufrent et meurent\", a dit, en parlant de nos soMats, Mgr l'évqque d'Agen . h e D s que lé eadard national est déployé, l'image de la patrie illumine ses plis. Que de saintes choses cette n ne symbolie-t-e pas I Le respect de la tradition, le espérances de l'avenir, l'inpe ndange commune, Funion de tous les citoyens sous la même autorité publique, le devir, loi supre de la liberté, et puis la gloire : ces biens augustes qui dépassent de toute la uteur du ciel, si l'on peut parler ainsi, les objets qu'on voit et qu'on palpe, apparstant aux hAueu d leur beauté sereine. L'homme sent que le bonheur individuel n'a pas p droit d'être aimé par dessus tout. Il y a un idéal, et la connaisaanceet le culte et la défense de cet idéal doivent prévalpir sur le désir pourtant naturel d'être heureux. \" Cette page, tiréedu livreGuer et Pariotùme,auquelMgrSagot du Vauroux a donnépour sous-titre : DocWrnes et conSeUe pra*iqes, résume une partie de ce qu'on a pu nonmmer, malgré l'amertume qui s'attache au contraste des deux mots les bienfaits de la guerre. Ce fléau, que l'Église, dans se grandes Litanies assimile à la famine et à la peste, pour en demander la délivrance, comme celle des plus grands maux humains, l'évêque d'Apgen, dan une série de dix conférences prononcées partie dans sa cathédrale, partie dans l'église de Marmande, a voulu en tirer les graves leçons. Il a enseigné à ses fidèles \"la doctrine catholique de la guerre, la doctrine catholique du patriotisme \", et il a voulu dégager ds événements douloa- reux que nous traversons l'enseignement qu'ils comportent. Ainsi avait fait pour ses diocésains, dans la célèbre instruction pastorale: Pot a, et endurance, qui a fait le tour du monde entier, le cardinal de Malines, réconfortant non.seulement la Belgique opprimée, ari toutes le Anes qui partout souffrent pour la justice. Ce ne sont point làde pures théories: on y trouve le accents iengeurs du droit, redoutables ou importuns à ceuxr eule qui l'ont violé. L'orateur a noté quelque put s préoccupation \"de onstaterdu faits\", loin de céder su mirage des systmes. On s'en rendra compte à chaque page de ou dix conférences qui sont devenues les chapitres d'un excellent ouvrage sur deux questions actuelles et connexes aux- quelles aucun Français, aucun citoyen du monde civilisé ns doit ai ns peut reter indifférent. LE CHANoINE E. GmasuAm. LES SOEURS DE LA PRESENTATION AU PAS Nous ions dans les Cloches de SaiBonYace du 15 septembre 1918 : 'Il noue ait plaisir de consigne arrivée dan la ville du Pas, siège épiscopal du viesire apostolique du Keewatin, d six religieuses de la Présentation de 8alqHyacathe. Depuis plusieurs mindes S. G. Mgr Charlebois, O. M. I., travaillait à obtenir das tSurs nour son école paroiesiale, où enseignaient une de Sours de lrtptal et des ase escWur Sue efforts sont couronnés d'un plei sucs. Non seulement lesnouve vuesontpricha des classes de l'école paroisiale, mais elles ont ennième temp ouvert un pensionnt ioù dès cette année elles pourront revoir de 2 tàe3mpenpuonnaio Monseignuram ardence épiscopale àer dposition et s'est retiré, avec le Personnel de smaison, dam une annexe de l'hôpital. \" L'exist de l'école libre du Pas est dsorm assurée. lacathoque$coné:uat à payer d'injustes taxes à l'éocle publique, à laquelle ils ne peuvent, n conscienti, envoyer leurs enfants, mais is auront la consolation de leur faire recevoir une éducation chrétienne et bilingue. \"r 'I",
         "192 L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE LA FRANCE A L'oEUVRE Le lieu commun du Français superfclsi, merveilleux dans l'dua et la furie de l'ofesive, incapable d'un effort tenace et durable, c'est nous qui l'avons forgé. Nos moralistes du the. tre, de la daire, du livre et du journal (les journaux mêmes ches nou ont eurs moralistes) ont été trlaisdasleurd .nnnde corriger, parleridicule ou l'invective, les moeur de Sme compatriotes. Du dehors, on a pris à la lettre leurs \"carsetres\" et, de bonne foi ou non, l'on nous a sévèrement jugés sur s peintures ou meurs doléanm e BYef, deSOreuBle compla. sentes ont seepté, des voix intéressées ont répandu la légende d'une France ineurablement légère, perdue de vices, corruptrice ou du moins corrompue, source d'anarchie et de désordres, pour un peu le fléau du monde. Voilà ce que c'est de pratiquer, par bravade ou par haine de l'hypocrisie, cette sorte de dénigrement qui affiche des défauts et des travers, de crainte de pn er pour meilleurs que nous sommes. Et puis, nous connaissant mal, et plus prompts à agir que portés à nom raconter, comment aurions-nous bien montré la France à l'oeuvre ? La guerre et la nécessité de remettre au point des griefs accumulés contre nous comme des engins de combat, nous ont obligés, pour notre pins grand bien, à des examens de conscience dont doit profiter l'humilité vraie qui n'est autre chose que la vérité. Ce qu'a fait la France depuis cinquante an dans l'ordre religieux, moral, phiosophique, social, lttéraire, et partant ce qu'elle vaut dans ces divers domaines, a été npoeé dans us volume collectif composé par les soins du Comité catholique de popande française àl'étran. ger, qui a pour titre: \"LA VIE CATHOLIQUE DANS LA FRANCE CONtMPO. RAINE \", et pour auteurs, Mgr. Tissier, évêque de Chilons, MM. Etienne Lamy, de l'Aca. dénie française, et HenryJoly,de l'Académie des Boisnes morales et politiques, le R. P. de Grandmaonnu, Directeur des Etudes, M. l'abbé Michelet, profeseur aux Facultés catholi. ques de Toulouse, M. Fortunat Strowd, prfesseur à la Sorbonne, et Henri Cochin, ancies député du Nord. Là sont exposés, avec une impartialité parfois sévère, les faits et les idées qui résumet l'action de notre pays, action religieuse, sociale, intellectuelle, artistique, depuis la guerre de 1870 jusqu'à nos jours en ce qui regarde la vie catholique. Et c'était la meileure, la bonne réponse à fournir aux inquiétudes ou aux malveillantes insinuations grâce auxquelles certains montraient la France comme un danger pour l'ordre établi et prétendaient redouter quelque peu sa victoire. Dans cet examen du passé, nous ne noue compakons à personne, noua bornant à raconte ce qui s'est fait ches nous, et Mgr. Baudrillart, à quil'Académie française vient d'ouvrir ses rangs, explique dans la Préface de ce livre, pourquoi ce procédé d'exposition l'emporte sur la polémique, désormais ssns objet, puisqu'à tous les reproches allégués contre nous, ampl répcnse a été donnée. Il y a un peu plus de \"comparaisons\", mais aussi pu de polémiquesdirectes, dan les \"LETTRES AUX NEUTRES SUR L'UNION 8ACREE \"que M. Georges Hoog a publié pour relever au jour le jour les giss de nos munumis contre la France, pour montrer surtout, avec une sévérité qui a bien parfois son méra., combien peu on nous connate lrsqu'n man. que de \"confiance dans la sève française, dan et nouvelle Boraison sur le vieux sol arrosé de tant de sang généreux\"'. Ces mots, que j'emprnmte à la Prface écrite pour ce livre par M. le baron d'Anthouard, ministre plenipotentiairs, un des actifs ouvriers de 'infuence fran- çaise, résument l'impression de ces Iettresfaites pour affermir la foi \"dans la victoire de Justice\" et servir 'la réputation de notre patrie\". \"A l'oeuvre on connaît l'artisa\", disait le fabuliste. Connais.mns la France teq est, d'après ce qu'elle a fait entre les deux guerres et pendant la guerre. Comme on l'a des Papes, les Français n'ont besoin que de la vérité. Ces deux livres, qui aideront à répandre sur le compte de la France, sont l'un et l'autre de nature à faire \"aimer la France l'oeuvre\". Eucnc Omma, Bmeaistre Ob\"ui du C. C. P. F"
      ]
   },
   "version" : "0.4",
   "request" : "http://eco.canadiana.ca/view/oocihm.8_04117_577/1?r=0\u0026s=1\u0026fmt=json\u0026api_text=1"
}
{
   "request" : "http://eco.canadiana.ca/view/oocihm.71612/1?r=0\u0026s=1\u0026fmt=json\u0026api_text=1",
   "version" : "0.4",
   "doc" : {
      "type" : "document",
      "title" : [
         "Sons of Canada : short studies of characteristic Canadians"
      ],
      "subject" : [
         "Canada -- Biography.",
         "Canada -- Biographies."
      ],
      "note" : [
         "Title from title screen.",
         "Tod \u0026 Cordingley, p. 41",
         "Watters (2nd ed.), p. 470",
         "viii, 279, [1] p., [16] leaves of plates : ports. ; 21 cm."
      ],
      "published" : [
         "Toronto : J.M. Dent, 1916."
      ],
      "lang" : [
         "eng"
      ],
      "creator" : [
         "Bridle, Augustus, 1869-1952.",
         "Challener, F. S. (Frederick Sproston), 1869-1959."
      ],
      "text" : [
         "SONS OF CANADA",
         "WALTÉE ALWR",
         "SONS 0F CANADA SHORT STUDIES Of CHARACTERISTIC CANADIANS 'BY AUGUSTUS BRIDLE DRAWINGS DYt F. S. CHALLONER R.C.A.9 O.S.A., ETC. TORONTO LONDON \u0026 PARIS J. M. DENT \u0026 SONS LTD. i916",
         "PREFACE As a general i-nie, a man must be a native of the country in which he dlaims the rights of citizenship. This is broadly true in connection 'with Germany, France, Russia, and Great Britain, but it is not tmue of Canada, nor yet of Australia or the United States. There are Canadians of ail classes who were bon on the soil, but there are also typical Canadians, with full citizen rights, who hall from, ail the civilised lands under the sun. This volume deals, as its title indicates, with typical modern Canadians, but it is not a treatise on racial de- velopment or on the evolution of a spirit of devotion to a new and composite country. It is a book of impres- sionistic studies of a numnber of the outstanding Cana- dians, in various walks of life, who' have built up the present-day Canada which is distinguished alike for its industriail greatness ai4d its romantic traditions. These studies attempt to, do some ainount of justice to the patriotic efforts of certain men whose naines are wel known through the mediumn of the press, but who are little more than naines to the general public. Au attempt has been made to provide a record of strenuous personal work done by men whose daim to public recognition lies rather in what they have done for Canada than in their descent or famnily connections. But this volume is no mere record of self-help, whlle it is re- cognised that the men of whomn these chapters tell owe as much to Canada as Canada owes to them. They are mien whose chief dlaim to distinction probably lies in their complete adaptability to the environinent in 'which they found themselve; and they must therefore be necessarily judged rather by what they became as",
         "Preface Canadians than by what they were before Canada laid a compelling hand upon their lives and fortunes. The stoxy of the strenuous 111e suggests the achieve- ments of the railad kîng, the great financier, or the notable politician; but this book does flot deal only with men who have made their names \" familiar in our mouths as household words.\" is purpose is also to show that certain mon have deserved weU of their country who have neither made large fortunes nor taken a place axnong their country's legisiators. Canada is not so crude as to depend entirgly upon her inillionaires and industrial leaders for her full development, and an effort has been made to ptove that the work of the so-called \"'lesser \" men of the country has had its full share li building up tbis modemn and very vigorous nation. XI ail cases the author has tried to, get down to first principles, and to, show the real character of the maxi under consideration, leaving the reader to formn bis own judgment of that character from, the facts, supplied. The book is froma the pen of a writer who although not bom li Canada dlaims to be a Canadian because bis work as a pioneer has been done ini the Dominion.",
         "CONTENTS PAGE Hîs RovAL HIGHNESS TEP, fuxE 0F CONNAUGERT. 1 SIR WILLIAM MACD0NALD--AI Educational Multi-philan- thropist . .3 SIR ROBERT BORDEN-A Gentlein,.n Premier I JOHN ROSS ROBERTSON-A Benevolent Despot 21 SIR WILFRiD LAUIERB-mhe Chevalier of Quebec. . 29 GENERAL. STEELE-.-Courage. . . . - . 41 *BARON SHAuGHNEssy-System and Temperament. 49 - PREsiDENT FALCONER-A Dispassionate President. . 59 SIR WILLIAM MAcxENziE-WilHianl the Conqueror . 67- SIR CLiFoRD SirroN-The Sphinx of Public Life . 79 PRoFEssoR JAxEs MAvoR-A Mutab]e Mentality . . 7- HEzNRi BouRAss.-A Parochial Patriot. . . . 95 ARzcEBiisHop BRucHE-si-A Sociologicai Prelate . . 107- SIR WILLiAu PrrEERsON-Collegiumn et Imperium . . 117 WALTER ALLWARD--A Quiet Interpreter . . . 123 SIR JOHN EATON-A Capitaliser of'Public Interest . 131 DRt. A. S. VOG;T-The Chorus-master . . . 139..ý REv. ALBERT CARMiAN-The Uncompromising Cleric .14 SIR SAM HUGREs-HObnailed Boots . 15 .î7 . COLONEL GEORGE_ DENisoN-Spurs and Sentences. . 167 SIR EDMuND WALKE-.-A Master of Axuenities . 17. SIR AnAx BEcK-The Miunicipaliser . 85 Sm WiILLiAu VAN H-oR.NE-Prodigious 1 . 193 -- E. Wvvir GEIE-R, R.C.A.-Temperaniental Eîquipoise . 203 SmR W=iLAM MuLocx-A Radical Reformer. . . 207 C. A. MAGRAT-A Genuine We: ±erner . . . 215 .,.SIR GEORGE POSTER-A Constant Critic . . 2- AiURROLz SiuzoR COTE-Le Peintre . 229 Sm MAX AITEE-N-TIie Keats of Finance . . . 235-*- Cor-. SmR HENRY 1DELuxrr-Our Unprofessionai Showman 245 LORD STRATECONA-The Land-Son Viking . .253-- Two PÈRrs DE MusIguE-Deux Pères de Musique . 261 Two PAINTERS oIF ONTARio--Foil and Counterfoil. . 269 Rxv. J. A. MAcDÔNAL-The Gaelic Orator . . 275 Vii",
         "LIST 0F PORTRAITS' WALTER ALLWARD RIS ROYAL EIGRSS CONqNAUGur SIR ROBERT BoRDEN SIR WILFRD LAuRiEtR BARON SHAUGRNESSY SIR WILLIAM MACKENZIE PROiriSSOR JAMES MAVOR ARCEBISROP BRUCHESI DR. A. S. VOGT. SIR SAX HUGHES SIR EDMUNID WAucER SIR WILLIAM VAN HORNE SmR WILLAM MULOCK SIR GEORGEL FOSTER SIR MAX ArrEKEN LORD STRATECONA THE, DURE 0F *Facing page i 16 * 3i 49 * 68 * ,, go * *, 110 * 144 Pb 16z * 176 * a, 193 Pb, 209 * ,, 224 * ,, 241 Pb* 256",
         ";I :~Y;~4\u003e",
         "SONS 0F CANADA HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUKE 0F CONNAUZGIIT CANqADiANs are somewhat fastidious in the matter of Governors-General. H.R.H. the-D'ýke of Connaught lias spoiled us. Before bis time we had experience of many first-rate Governors, some of whom added to their celebrity after leaving Rideau Hall. When a mxan lias been vice-regent of Canada hne is qualified to fl any gubernatorial post in the Empire. When the Duke of Connauglit leaves this cou2ntry it is to be hoped that lie consents to act as the Ring's representative in no other overseas dominicin or crown côlony under th 'e sun. The inherent demaocracy of Canada was neyer at such a higli pitch of expression as since the term of our most aristo- cratie governor. Soldier, statesman, gentleman, mnan of the -world, and a Royal Governor embodying ail the typical graces of the Victorian era Pmiost of the rugged proverbial virtues of John Bel hiniseif, we shail always remember Arthur, Duke of Connauglit, as in rnost re- spects the simplest, sincerest Governor we ever had. We shall neyer know how mucli of the Canadian army, both in nunibers and in loyal fighting quaiity, wa-s in- spired by the presence among us in a suprexue capacity of a Royal Governor who is buiseif a trained soldier of the highest rank in the Empire. The Duke's sbrewd and active interest in the miulitia systexu that becatue a great army and in thxe overseas dominion that lias beconie itself a centre of empire sentiment, lias always won the admiration of Canadians. In paylug respect to lus Royal Higlness as a Duke, an Emperor's uncle, and a psollshed instinctit gentleman of the first",
         "H.R.H. the Duke of Connaughi rank in any of the world's aristocracies, we sometimes look to him more klythan to some of the more pre- tentious -aristocrall- .-':ose tities are in direct ratio to their standingin politics or finance. Twenty-six years ago, the Duk? of Connaught paid his first visit to Canada. During bis stay in Toronto an orchestral concert was given in the Horticuliural Pavilion. The Duke was flot present, being socially engaged elsewhere. Just before the last number on the programme the conductor, whose career is sketched briefly ini this book, turned and said to, the audience: \" Ladies and :gentlemen,-In recognition of the fact that His Royal Highness, the Duke of Connaught, son of Rer Majesty Queen Victoria, is in- the city, the orches- tra wiIl now play' God save the Queen,'so, that you may have an opportunity to put on your wraps while we perform, the last nurnber on the programme.\" The compliment is now extended by people of many languages to the person of the Duke of Connaught him- self. In so, doing, the people of Canada, more or les represented. by the characters impressionised in this book of sketches, have a hope that îhe Duke of Con- naught counts it not the lea-st distinguished part of an eminent career that for a term of years in the evening of bis life he was privileged to become a citizen of Canada. As -a true gentleman is always a democrat at heart, we believe that Ris Royal Highness will much oftener 'be proud of bis Canadian citizenship, than he will be conventionally amused at any of the superficial defects of oui Canadian bra*nd of democracy.",
         "SIR WILLIAM MACDONALD TEE greatest educational philanthropist in the British Empire-so far as the expenditure of millions for education is concerned-is a paragon of paradoxes. Money-making is as natural to Sir William Macdonald as measles to, childhood; but he lives almost as simply as a street-car conductor. Indlividually the richest man in Montreal, he lias given away more than he has kept. Too conservative to, use a telephone until a few years ago, he has spent millions on modemn scientiflc education for other people. A man of public interest, to the core, right in the fore- front of modemn movements, that benefit society through practical education, lie has neyer held any kind of office where any man could cail him anything but plain Macdonald. So plain and simple in his tastes that for most of his life he drove to business in a series, of old- fashioned gigs and phaetons, in a moment of unguarded weakness he accepted a titie fromn Queen Victoria and scarcely knew what to do with it. A firm believer in domestic happiness he has always steadfastly refused to marry. And thougli he has made millions out of manufacturing tobacco, lie lias neyer smoked a whiff or taken a chew in his, life, and once threatened a nephew of bis, with retirement back to Prince Edward Island if lie did not give up cigarettes. If there is joy in practising what you do -lot, preach, Sir William. Macdonald should be the happiest man alive. There neyer was, a Canadian Dickens to transcribe this, F man to a charactersbip in a novel, or lie would have become one of the monuments of literature. Since the memory of most, men living Sir William has lived in a plain old terrace on Sherbrooke Street not far fom McGilI University. When lie first went there the place was -probably somewhat stylish. W'hile other rmoney barons of 14ontreal built modern casties, at West-",
         "Sir William Macdonald mount, Macdonald kept bis terrace, whose only mark of pious care was the polish on the brass knockers and the knobs. The door opens into a dark hall and the hall leads off abruptly into a library of many books. Here at a lectern stands or used to stand Sir William, black coat, squidgy black bow loose under a negligent collar, gl.asses over bis sharp nose-reading, reading, bis only pastime. The books are many and various; the house is ahnost gloomy; the wallpaper reminiscent; on the walls flot even a good oil painting. Some years ago Van Home and Strathcona tried to interest Sir William in pictures. It was no use. There was no reality in pictures; much more in books. And the old man often went down to business,, even since bis knighthood, in an overcoat that used to be grey till time made it somewhat green- always with that muffler at bis chin, clatteuing away in bis rickety gig to the dingy old offices on Notre Dame a few steps from his beloved Bank of Montreal, up the creaking rickety staircase that neyer knew an elevator, into rooms that would have given the blues to any but a man wlio cared nothinig for mere comfort or decoration, but all for business. Sir William was born in Prince Edward Island. His father was President of the Legisiative Council, P.E.I. Ris grandfather was John Macdonald, eighth chiei-of the Clan of Glenaladale, founder of the Scotch settlements of Tracadie and tbree other places on the Island, and captain in the Royal Highland Emigrant Regimnt i the Revolutionary War. Further back than this the genealogist, does not go, to the Highlands where the ancestors of tbis littie maii of compressed dynamics must have been giants of the mosshags. The line direct ends with William Macdonald, who may have concluded that it was no use to have children that wouldihlerit bis money and perhaps, go to the dogs in spending it. William Macdonald was a littie wire-edged bundie of energy when. he turned bis heels upon Prince Edward Island i 1854, and took an amazing journey up the St. LawreiiS. The Mo'ntreal that \u0026fst knew Macdçànald was",
         "Sir William Macdonald a jumble of historical monuments, untidy docks, dirty, dark streets, thriftless French and diligent Anglo-Saxons, and one littie university with less than a hundred students. What led hlm to manufacture tobacco nobody has ever explained. He would have made as much money had he decided to, make sugar, cottoii, or luniber. But tobacco was a Canadian institu-tion. Luniber camps were as much in need of tobacco as a modemn army. Hard tack, fat pork, and molasses needed plug tobacco to complete the luxury of living. The tobacco made by Macdonald was one of the first CanadÂan-made to.go to the outpost places; smoked and chewed in lumber camps, mining camps\u003e Eskimo igloos, prospectors' tents, and Indian tepees; in half-breed shacks and factory yards; on trains and steamships and trails; in the outer- most marches of the Arctic where the hip-pocket and its plug are a constant joy; on the soft blowing Pacific where the weed from Montreal is as common as canned salinon; on the cod-banks of the Atlantic where the fisherman's pipe is the joy of living; and even in down-, town clubs of Canadian cities you wili find men who, scorning the :fine-cut and the patent package, discreetly haul ont from, the hip-pocket a plug of Macdonald tobacco and proceed to demonstrate the joy that comes from the art of getting ready to smoke. Neyer to lie forgotten is the flrst chew of tobacco I ever saw a man take. Hie was a timberjack in the hard- wood bush of western Ontario, about to notch, a five- foot swainp elin which he and his mate would afterwards bring down with a crosscut saw. He took the black treacly plug from the hip-pocket, looked at it with ahnost maternaI tendemness for a moment, bit off a corner, and prepared himself to enjoy the taste of that'chew until the swanip elmi should go down. \"What kind is she, Bil? \" asked his mate. \"Oh-Mcdonalds--downiii Montreal.\" 1 remember seeing that brand advertised on the bcard fences; but I amn not sure whether it was one of Mac- donald's plugs or another sort alinost equaliy fanious which. furnished bushwhacker wags with the bogus fw.e-",
         "Sir William Macdonald cent pieces that they sometimes dropped into the church collection plate. There*was great stimulus to the imagina- tion in .one of those plugs of tobacco. Molasses laden, gurnmy and black, it told the story of the tobacco plant grpwing lilce weeds, packed and baled and ported to the wharves of Montreal, whopped with fragrant empliasis into the warehouses of Macdonald, ripped and tom loose, sorted and stripped, flavoured and pressed, stamped and ready for the case, the counter, and the camp. Every plug of that tobacco had in it the almost cosmic frugality of William Macdonald. In that sharp-]ined, eagle-eyed face eould be seen the limes of the proverb, \"Waste not, want not.\" A plug of tobacco in the making was to hlm a personal. product, or why should the bush- man wink and say piously-\" Oh, Micdonald's \" ? High wages and dear tobacco-leaf reduced the size of the ten-cent plug as Macdonald Lïmself began to shrivel a bit into the pucker of age. Plantation owvners in the south knew what a hau(l buyer was Macdonald, who .figured ini fractions of a cent on cost of production. A iactory hand who wanted a raise of pay witbout a corresponding increase either in the work or the cost of living must be inquired into by Macdonald. He -knew bis workmen. Whatever methods were in vogue in bis factoiies or in his buying and selling, machlnery must be explained to -ary commission by hiniself, neyer by a subordinate. If a Macdonald employee met with an accident or feil sick, he .became the personal. care of the firm, who professed to look after hlm, better than any paternal, lodge or insurance society. Without chick or child or hobby but bis business, Macdonald was the phantomn at every man's elbow. Why should any man waste time or material? Why should customers get less for their money because employees were allowed to squander in the factory, or because the head of the firn wainted a winter trip to the Bermudas? W7hy should customers pay a biglier cost of production because some foreman wanted a more elaborate building or because other men with far less business on their books had luxurious offices? There was",
         "Sir William Macdonald no0 objection to electric liglit wý,hen it came, because it was a better and more economical light. Modemn machinery was allways welcome, so long as it turned out better goods at no hig her cost, but the interest on investnient must be carefully watched along with the depreciation. As for the telephone-did it flot make men lazy? Did most men transact any real business by long-distance conversations?, Why should a talk be interrupted by an impertinent bell? No, the telephone must be postponed. Macdonald tobacco could be produced without it-for a wbile yet. If Macdonald was always a personaliser of bis busi- ness, it was because he was a man wvith one idea at a turne and but one lifetime in which to work it out. Hie was a concentrator. Plenty of bis friends, had so many ambitions that they spent balf their turne presiding at directors' meetings. Most of the successful men lie knew were directors or presidents of hall a dozen comapanies each. Macdonald could always find plenty of room for bis personal energy in the one-man business of wbich he was the creator and the head. If lie had time and energy to spare lie found some way to invest it in that business-no other. Optiniistic; prornoters of rnining companies, land companies, gas and power companies neyer got mucli encouragement froin Macdonald. Wliy should lie lend bis naine to, a dozen other concerns of whici lie knew nothing and had flot time JLo learn? Every mnan to, bis trade; the cobbler to, bis Iast; Macdonald to bis tobacco, bis one directorship in the Royal Trust-and bis stock in the Bank of Montreal. Ay, the bank! that was a great tbing, a natural, neces- sary bandmaid to business and a source of wealth. And William Macdonald rernains to-day tzhe liéaviest share- liolder in thie Bank of Montreal. Clubs again; why did s0 many men lie knew belong eacli to hall a dozen clubs? Relaxation, sociability, business acquaintance, social standing-psli! Macdonald needed none of tliese tbings. He liad a comfortable home, rnany books, plenty of tbings to, think about- and ideas ta'king sliape for the future.",
         "Sir William Macdonald He had become a very ricli old mani. Hie had no family on which t.i spefld, money, no sons f0 whoma he could leave if. But fliere was a way for the lone mani Macdonald to prove that lie was not living forw'ealth and bank shares and business and self. He had neyer been uncharitable; but lie had neyer believed in indiscriminate charity- especially in a new country like Canada where self- help was the law. But he knew how t0 give where bis judgient found it was needed. And whenever he camne to, the full measure of bis giving there should be no mani li Canada, past or present, who could be set down by the newspapers as giving more-or as much. But it would neyer do to dissipate millions in riotous giving. Whaf Macdona.ld chose to part with for the sake of the comrnunity and the country in which he had accumulafed wealth must be as sbrewdly adininistered as the business Iy which he begaxi f0 inale his money and the bank in which so mucli of it was wisely invested. The world has known for a good xnany years what Sir William Macdonald has done f0 recreafe McGill University; how bis moxiey anid practical wisdom, have changed McGill from a college with a classical turn to a great modemn university with its fingers on every phasp of twentieth-century life. But the sunxiy opti- mists who imagined that because lie was givixig niillions f0 educaf ion he was ergo an easy mark for sociological benevolences were sometimes grievously jolfed'. It was not very long after liebegan to give large sumsn to the cause of education that he received a eall at his factory office from, a maxi who had a benevolent hobby, a large but very needy down-town Methodist churdli ini Monfreal. Time after time the affairs of that big church, now worth at least a million dollars li foot front ages, lad corne before fhe General Con.férence. It became the perennial problemn-how to save it to Mefhodism in Canada. Macdonald was flot a Mefhodist. Born a Roman Catholie, lie had pretty welI. givexi up interest in aIl churci maffers. The visitor fouxid the millionaire, as usual, liard to",
         "Sir William Macdonald get at. He was received by a dour and burly Scot7 who as major-domo in a bareleg regiment wou.ld have been immense. \" Y're wantin' to see Mr. Macdonald? \" lie repeated. deAy, he's in. But what is it y'd like to spier hlm aboot?\" The visitor evaded the point. \" Weel, lII teil hlm y're wantin' to see bim.\" In a few moments the caller was Jet into the office, where lie stated bis benevolent business to the keen- eyed and wary pbilanthropist. He knew the caustic tongue of Macdonald, its withering irony, and its tactics of the claymore. Persuasivel', and discreetly he told the story, adding that a Methodist customer of Macdonalds who was a delegate to the Conference and purchased Macdonald tobaccos by the canlot, had asked him to, elicit from tihe head of the firm what lie would do to save this grand cathedral of Methodism. The sharp eyes of the tobacco magnate gleamed with sudden interest. This was a plausible human suggestion. He called bis clerk. The moment seemed auspicious. \"Find out,\" lie said rapiclly, \"' what the account of Mr. --is with this firm.' The cailler waited wvith nervous expectancy. He knew the yearly aggregate was v'ery large, and surmised that with Scotch justice the magnate would \"'make the punisbment fit the crime.\" The clerk returned with the figures. Macdonald did not reacli for bis peu and his cheque book. \"Write Mr. -,\" lie snapped, dethat bis account with us is closed forthwith.\"- The clerk gasped witli axnazement. deSay that the account is closed,\" nepeated Macdonald. deIt makes no difference how large it may be. Mn. - can't uise bis connection with this business to, hold it up for a donation to any cause, no matter if it is a churcli.' Philanthropies are neyer pried out of Macdonald. When lie establislied the Macdonald Agricultural College and Normal Scliool with a large model farm attached at St. Anne de Bellevue up the Ottawa, lie spent millions",
         "Sir William Macdonald on a project that lie considered would be of some use to modem education in Canada. He did the saine thing in a sinaller way by founding the Macdonald Institute, a sehool for domestic science at the Agricultural College ini Guelphi, Ontario. Hie pursued the saine modemn set of ideas ini bis establishnment of consolidated rural sehools, believing that the old ted schoolhouse with its isolated régime was too mucli a part of the backwoods era in Canada to, be keeping up with the -times. If the affairs of these philanthropies, totafling more than $15,ooo,ooo, %have got into print, it was through no publicity enterprise of Macdonald. In 1898, after lie had begun to spend millions on education, he was kniglited by Queen Victoria. liow lie came to accept a titie is stili a inystery. The orily sign lie gave of liaving done so, was to discard bis old horse and phaeton and buy a smart coupé with a quick-stepping, well-groomed horse dlrivfen by a coachmnan. So this strange old man of stnbborn ways goes about Montreal with the mystery of the paradox always about bim. lis body is drying up, but bis soul goes marching on. lie is the dour old Scot 'with the twinkle in *bis eye and the spring of incurable energy in bis ]imbs. He lias the grit of a lion and the tenacity of bis race at its most incorrigible heiglit. No one ever heard of bis giving any opinions about liow to mun a nation. He neyer instructs senators or parliamentarians. Hie speaks froin no platform. H-is private politics are like bis religion, and bis business and bis. pbilantbropy largely a personal matter. -He takes no stock in grand opera or ini music of any sort. Mere amusement is no part of bis programme. If tlie world must be amused-so let it be. Macdonald amuses bimself. A1il there is of Macdonald outside the great 'business whicli bis per- sonality made possible lie ern..oodies in the tbings that swallow bis surplus millions. And if at any turne the shade of tlie old founder McGill could be consulted lie would probably be courteous enougli to agree that the name*of tlie big Anglo-Canadian University in bi-lingual, Montreal sliould be clianged to Macdonald University.",
         "SIR ROBERT BORDEN ic. wiil be recorded ini history as the f\u003eremier who at New Vear 1916 called for a total Canadian Army of 500,000 men; wliose government commandeered 15,Ooo,ooo bushels of wheat at terminal elevators and sent it to Europe; whose Finance Minister opened a domestic war boan of $50,ooo,ooo, wbxch was subscribed twice over; whose Parliainent, up tilt the beginning of 1916, had already voted $2ooooo,ooo of a war loan. Men, înoney, materials-going out. Little but credit coming in. Every moitai thing done by the Borden govermnent running into, iTillions-expenditure; anid flot a soul on the oihpr side of the House to make a word of protest. Yes, the country is very loyal to the nation-making idea represented by Sir Robert Eorden, the first Premier who ever governed this country by impersonality. This unstageable man almost woke Up to find himself Premier in 1911. Years before lie had begun to, talk about getting the Liberals out. Since 1907 lie had theorised about what his party would do if ever they-got in. The Halifax Platformn (see Hansard and the newspaper files) contains ail the recipes enunciated by Mr. Borden at Halifax, just before a general election. I\u003eerhaps Sir Robert Borden could recite that document to-day. If so\u003e lie smiles. That Halifax Platform is ini the National Museuin along with the National Policy, No Popery, and the Jesui'ts' Estates -Bib. Sir Robert Borden is cafling for soldiers-and more soldiers; millions of money and more millions. Rail- ivays and steamships are carrying out troops and wheat; factories malzing munitions; faims, offices, and stores sending men into camps; financiers raising war funds galore; -wo*men knitting, sewing, and organising and belping to recruit. Canada is not now being railroaded,",
         "Sir Robert Borden Europeanised, and subdivided. Gone into the cold per- spective of history is the dealock over the Naval Aid BUll in 1912~. Fast going into bistorical oblivion is the Natîonalist Party that helped to elect Sir Robert Borden Premier. So he goes with that Derby hat and thick overcoat, trudging a bit sidewise up Parliament Hill on winter days to -the office of the Premier in the East Block- the man who neyer laughs in public. Step by step lie cogitates. Resolutely he holds on his way. Courteously he bows to a member or a niinister. On into bis room, face chiselled like bronze for an Egyptian god, grey hair punctiliously parted aniidships, faultlessly groomed, a tbick grizzled moustache, and a steady eye-alwaysseem- ing to have plenty of time, forever seeniing to inake up bis mind, discreetly shuffiing over papers, reflectively reading; sucli a seriôus, meditative man. His secretary is staccato;- Borden-always skowly polite and for the most part gently reasonable. In an hour lie may con- scientiously get through a load of detail work and is ready for the first of a Une of miscellaneous callers. A green thiize door opens and you face the Premier, at whose back a slow wood fire is burning, on bis riglit a big Gothie bow window overlooking the campus. He rises, greets the visitor in a tbick basso yoice of unaffected cordiality, and motions him to sit i a chair which is discreetly screwed. to the floor on the end of bis desk. And until the interview is over this man of slow mind and overwhelming sincerity says neyer a word that somehow does flot seem to be part of a moral message. Hie is the unstageable, unspectacular Borden; the man from Halifax, the lawyer who was born to be a judge, the citizen who was neyer cut out for politics, the gentleman who ordinarily neyer could bave got flirougli life without becoming a churchwarden. In September i915 the Prime inister spoke bMfre a vast audience i the Arena at Toronto. He bad just returned from an extensive visit to the lines of battle and to England. Fresh fr-om the headquarters, of General",
         "Sir Robert Borden Joffre and Sir John Frenchi, from the trenches on the firing lines and the hospitals behind themn; only the other day speaking on the sanie platforma with Premier Asquith and Right Hon. Mr. Balfour; dined and con- * ferenced; entertained by the King; given the freedom, of the Cit of London at the heart of Empire-the Premier of Canada spoke to i0\u003e000 people as thougli he were reading a story sent in a letter. Sir Robert Borden cannot pretend to be what hie is flot by nature, who, in moulding hlm left out most of the power of expression and compounded the man of duty, public service, conscience, absolute honesty of purpose, and the determination to be a statesman. Had he been created even io, per cent. a politician, he mnight have stopped to acquire some of - the tricks of oratory for the sake of swaying the crowd that deliglits in the power of the spoken word. If he were less thoughtful, lie iniglt be more a man of action, no matter what forma the action miglit take. Less than haif so modest, lie miglit have cast decorum to the winds and proceeded to, tear a passion to, tatters. Less altogether than he is of an admirable -citizen lie niight have condescended to become for one hour something of an actor. No man ever camne before a united people in this coumtry with more to say-when lie said less. He seerned wreary. Filled as lie was with the sentiment of an Emapire being tried out in a great war whose outlines lie liad actuaily seen, whose smoke lie liad smelled, whose ravages lie had witnessed, lie acted as thougli le had been forced upon the stage to tell about it, and would be glad when the show was over. The impressions lie liad got reinained bis own. By a whim of reation lie was denied the rare joy of translating those-impre-ssions to the multitude, in an age whe.n demagogues are on ahnost every Street corner shouting their heads off and saying nothing. What does it matter whether the crowd be ten thou- Sand in a tabernacle or a hundred in some country churcli? The message must be the sanie. The personality of -the speaker in expresion must be the samne. The eàme~ 13",
         "Sir Robert Borden stage .setting must do fot all the shows;- the saine plain, untheatrical, and mostly undramatic actor. Climaxes and big inspirational moments must be avoided. Thrills are dangerous and are followed by inevitable reaction. [t is no business of a Prime Minister to be a reviva.list. As a. leader of his party in the House, as a debater, as a dignified, clear-headed parliarnentarian with the moral mastery over both himself and his party, the Premier is always admirable; a man whom it would be a. pride to point out to any stranger wishing to see Canadian manhood in its most honest, straightforward embodiment. There he must be left. If the party or the people wish to drag him out for a show, they must be sure to provide actors enough to coniplete the bill. It is of prime importance to remember how, when, and under what circurustances so impersonal a figure ever came to be Premier of Canada at a time when a world war is making marionettes, of national figues the world over. The Borden fainily migrated as United Empire Loyalists to the valley celebrated by Longfellow in the poem IIEvangeline.\" Robert Laird Borden was bomn in the very village of which the poet prattled* so musically in the opening lines: \"In the Acadian land *on the shores of the Basin of Minas, Distant, secluded, stili, the littie village of Grand-Pré Lay in the fruitful valley. Vast xneadows stretched to the eastward, Giving the valley its name. ... Sea-fogs pitched their tents and mists from the niighty Atlantic Looked 'on the happy valley, but ne\u003eer from their stations descended: There in the midst of its farras, reposed the Acadian village.\" And we may well imagine that the Borden homnestead, was the prettiest pastoral glinipse in many a mile. \u003eThe Borden family, with that grave, serious.sincerity spark- ling now and again into moderate mirth, attended to al -duties devoutly, to church religiously, and lived amid an environnient of perpetual peace. Robert laird Borden went to one of the littie acadeniies that were dotted almost as thick as Iight- 14",
         "Sir Robert Borden houses over the land of Evangeline and Sam Slick. While stil a young man lie became some sort of pro- fessor in a littie New jersey college; afterwards came back to study law in Halifax, where in after years he became a comfortable, unpretentious lawyer; where lie attended churcli regularly at wooden old St. Paul's overlooking the mighty harbour and the square onice clanking with the ing's soldiers, where up till a few years ago lie seduiously sang in the choir amid the quaint relies of a bygone.age. No man can be a good Haligonian without a due sense of the historic and the decorous. In Hàlifax the past gazes pensively at you on every corner; not romanticaily as in -Quebec, but with a subdued, respeetful aspect that makes you forget the once roilicing deviltry of lialifax's niilitary régime. The pomp of military days lias become the manners of the present. Garrison parades, society teas, church services, monuments, and old buildings continually remind the touxist that the first essential of civilisation is eminent respectability. There are business concerns in Halifax conducted by the same genteel snuff-taking methods that characterised the days of the Prince Consort. The English accent is- everywhere. No true Halligonian cares for modernity. Old St. Paul's churcli was built of lumber fetched in sailing vesspis from Boston. It is cra full of relics. Halifax is the Boston of Canada and dignifiedly resents any bilposter, real estate methods of getting on in the world. To be a-decent Haligonian you must neglect a respectable part of busi- ness for society, politics, and religion; flot forgetting the soldiers, a.t the ci:tadel and the young officers on the Niobe. Which, with the charmed outlook over the greatest harbour in America, is precisely what makes Halifax one of the maost delectable cities in Canada in which to enjoy life. R. L. Borden was a good citizen of Halifax. He had about hima ail the decoro.us, -amiable qualities that make Halifax very.largely wbat itused to-be. Y-ou-note this genteel persistenicy in the Premier's face; - a sort of moral and physiognomica. tenacity that beongs rather to, the 15",
         "Sir Robert Borden middle-class a±:istocrat, respectable in trade, religion, and politics. The Sir Robert florden of to-day, if he were habited in a brief cutaway, clinging check trousers, mutton-chop whiskers, and full black cravat, might easily be imagined doffing his colonial, top hat at the gate of wooden old St. ?aul's, the littie Westminster Abbey of Halifax. Ail through the earlier triumphs and later degeneracies of the Conservative party under Sir John Macdonald, the unpretentious lawyer remained ini Halifax, not even attempting to get a. seat ir. the Nova Scotia Legisiature. In 1896 there was at least one surprise from the land of joseph Home an4 Charles Tupper. R. L. Borden was elected to the House of Conimons for Halifax. His leader was Tupper who remained, head of the Opposition until the election, of igoo, when the Conservatives were again defeated. There seemed to bebut one man of the old Macdonald Cabinet with political acurnen enough to lead anything more fractious than a nice family horse. That was George E. Foster, who was regarded as a cold, isolated. ixpssibity. What was -to be doneP In suçh a predicament the Conservative party did sometbing just to ease their own feelings and stop a gap-tiil the Lord should send theni another Macdonald. They- chose Robert Laird Borden from Halifax. With ail bis obvious respectability, sincerity, integrity, patriotic enthusiasm, and average, everyday capacity. for uninspired days' works, they thrust this scion of a Loyalist house into the chair of Macdonald. And the Caucus went off biting its finger nails as -much as to say : \u003c'Now, then, we've picked the honestest muan ini Canada to lead what the Liberals tried .to prove was the most cornipt party organisation in Canadian history. What are you going to do about it?\" Sucli was the condition of a temperamentalparty now led by an untemperamental -nan. Whither? No man knew. There seemed to be no C.anaan now that Ma.c- donald wes en The~ more aaiy k;yal Conctrvative trieci Z6.",
         "Sir Robert Borden % te elucidate Borden, the more desperate the pliglit of kis party seemed to be. After ail Borden might be only a stop-gap. Some other star might loom over the horizon. Borden seemed willig enougli to please. At ait events lie could rally the party on the .left sufficiently to keep Laurier and his college of dazzling experts from having it ail their own way mn-a two-party House. And there was littie else left to do. When R.IL. Borden had the magnificent moral courage to take the leader- ship of the Macdonaldites iu Canada, lie knew that he had about as mucli personal volition in the case as the brazen serpent had when it was lifted up by Moses. But he had no intention of blazing any brilliant trait. It would talie haif a lifetime to obliterate the ghost of John A. R. L. Bbrden cahnldy sat and waited. Hie was conscious of no great gifts as a leader. lis experience lu Parlia- ment had been limited; in politics mucli less. He knew nothig lu actual practice of the devious ways of winning elections. Yet lie came from a land where elections at that time used to be taken more seriously than lu any other part of Canada. Great movements were bomn during that decade igoi- i91i; the new great West, the immigration era, the British Preference -begun in 1897-the second and third transcontinental railways, the birth of a greater and more prosperous Canada, the Ataskan Award, the rise of the Nationalist party to its balance-of-power status lu Québec, and the glorification of Laurier the magnetic Frenchi Canadian to almost the giddy height once enjoyed by kils great rival John A. Macdonald. In ail these onward marches of men and events, Robert Borden was little more than a somewhat per- plexed, often baffed, but forever liopeful spectator ; until the election of i907 when, atter the creation of two new western provinces andj.he redistribution of seats, lie toured the country from, coast to coast enunciating what was then known as the Halifax- Platform. But the Halifax Platform left leader Borden by the wayside once more. Hie worked and waited and hung 17 B3",
         "Sir Robert Borden on. There were not wanting sigus; thougli le was neyer prescient. In 1911 the Taft-Fielding manoeuvre from Wasbingc- ton revived the ancient spirit that, in the early Mac- donald days liad carried the party to victory. Borden came out uncompromisingly in opposition to the reciprocity pact. Already lie liad to bis credit an un- mistakable stand on the question of direct aid to the British Navy as opposed t0 what was afterwards called the separatist Canadian navy of Sir Wilfrid Laurier. In the election of 1911 anti-reciprocity swept the country with the dimensions of a popular sentiment. Borden tlie patient Acadian gentleman and undoubted patriot was at tlie crest of the wave. Alinost before lie had Urne to forecast the event lie found himself Premier, at the liead of a rejuvenated party elected to a considerable extent by independents and Nationalists. Wliat lias liappened since is too near to be treated as even recent history. The battie ini Parliarnent over the Naval Aid Bill defined tlie positions of the parties on Imperial questions, even wlien it united them on a general principle of remairaing loyal to the Empire. The country liad swung back to its old attitude of opposing any form of continentalism. Tlie Premier of 1911, Up tifi the present, is mucli the same man as tlie Borden of 1901., wlien lie became leader of the Conservative party. Men like Borden neyer under- go revolutions. Tliey evolve. Sir Robert Borden neyer rises above the level of bis work, because bis work alviays seems to bim the greatest tbing in life. Personal ambition lie neyer had, or if lie had lie kept it concealed witli consummate actorsbip, of wbicli no one suspects him. Chicanery lie neyer understood. He is a moral figure wlio sornetimes finds hirnself at tlie mercy of a flippant, adventurous world. Conscious of certain limitations lie lias tried to owricome tliem. Once a pliotograplier, anxious to get rea]istic action pictures of Mr. Borden during the carn- paign of i907, enticed bim on to tlie roof of a Toronto liotel. wliere lie liad the Opposition leader enact a series",
         "Sir ]Robert I3orden of oratorical poses which were published by party organs as genuine pictures of Mr. Borden speaking. That is about the limit, of Sir Robert Borden's guile. Work, duty, responsibility, citizensbip, national de- velopment, Empire - these are the daily fare of the Premier. He is flot a natural, leader. He bas, no great sagacity ini picking men. Unable to dominate a Cabinet by personal mnethods or party tactics, lie must depend largely upon moral power and political purpose. Between the Naval Aid debate and the outbreak of war the doininating force in the Cabinet seemed to be some- where in a line betweem, Hon. Robert Rogers and Sir George Foster, neither of whom could, have led the party, although one looked after the elections and tlie other led the House. Since the war most, of the sliop- window business of the Cabinet lias been transacted by General Sir Samn Hughes. The Minister of Militia somne- times finds a Cabinet rather an encuxnbrance. But lie lias not yet managed to dispense witli the Premier, mucli of wliose political business for the past two years lias been to regulate and explain General Hughes. Tlie war increased the Premier's responsibility, but eased bis task. When the cail of tlie Empire made ail men get a thriIl of patriotism Sir Robert rose to the occasion. Witb the moral duty of upliolding thie Empire the Premier lias no hesitation in calling for soldiers and money. Wlien the war is over and the country is again absorbed in domestic problems, the real test of Sir Robert Borden will corne.",
         "JOHN ROSS ROBERTSON ONcE-mn the year i915-there was a lad who desired when he grew Up to be MYayor of Toronto. Sb lie asked bis father what lie should do to win his ambition besides reading the Telegram. Wliereat bis father asked him: \"Johnnie, wlio\u003es the proprietor of the Teleramn?\"P \"Old John Ross,\" said the lad. The father mildly shook him. MiWhat's that again? Say it again.\" \"Old John Ross,\" repeated Jobnnie, ivriggling away. \"That-s what you cail hlm. I know bis last naines Robertson, but I didn't think it mattered.\" \" Well, if you ever get to be Mayor of Toronto by the choice of the people, my boy, you'll have to go and talk to Mr. Robertson. He looks after that.\"- Johnnie's consuming ambitken was to grow up and have a real heart-to-heart ta]k with the owner of the great paper in bis upstairs office. He knew where that was, just at the corner of Bay and Mlelinda Streets, over- look-ing the line of delivery autos and the screamlng newsboys and the hundreds of people who watched the great presses in the basement wvaiting for copies that they niight rush off and get jobs. He knewv that the inside of this temple of news was quite magnificent. He had been up the marbie stairs with the iron balustrades, had peeked into the reading room, had seen rushlng reporters and ail sorts of busy people ln a large number of small rooms; and once lie had seen the owvner himseif looldng like the wrinkled ideai of a great man going up into bis office wbich Johnnie knew was the real power- house of Toronto politics. One niglit mst befôre Christmas i19'5, Johnnie dreamed that ai last lie was up spylng at thc keyhole to, see how Mr. Robertson really looked in that office. He dreamed that lie saw mauy pictures on the walls, bronze",
         "John Ross Robertson figures here and there, a deal of fine furniture, a lot of red rugs, and a large fireplace just visible through a thin white sheet that hung d;ver it. But as yet there was no Mr. Robertson. Suddenly a light shone into the roomn and it seemed to corne direct froin the City Hall dlock up the street. A figure came on the screen. It was like one of the cartoons on the front page of the Telegram; a large tiger with John Ross Robertson's head, and under it: \"«The Tammany of Toronto.\" That faded and there came another: the saine face, this timne arising out of a solen-n mass of robes, and under it: \"High Priest of the Masonic Order.\" That vanished and the next was two figures; one of them an old-fasbioned person called Dr. Samuel johnso4i whose head was the City Hall dlock, and the other a quaint personage whose head was Mr. Robertson; and this one was called: ceThe Boswell to Dr. Toronto.\" Last of all came what to Johnnie was somewhat the best of ail. And this one, which seemed to corne down out of the fireplace, was a combination of Santa Claus and somne other great indly figure who had about bis robes a host of littie children that once had been il and now were well again. And this picture was called: \"\"Friend to the Sick Cbildren of Toronto.'- When that picture *was gone the boy woke Up. The owner of the Torontto Telegram was born in Toronto. Had he corne to it from, an Ontario village or sinall town he might be like some of the other wealthy men in that city, too busy malring money to take any interest ini municipal govermuent except to advertise its defects. His father was a dxy-goods merchant. His ancestors reachback in a direct Uine tofDuncan Robertson, chief of the clan of Struan Robertson, dating back- to 1347. Seven years before Robertson's birth Toronto was incorporated as a city. Its population then was under So,ooo. In the lifetime of Robertson that has -been multiplied by ten.",
         ".John Ross Robertson His youth was spent at Upper Canada College w,.here lie showed bis interest ini people and tbings by starting a paper called the Gollege Times, issued once a month from a back room in bis father's house, where lie biniseif stuck the type, ran the hand press, and bundled up the copies to lug out to the college. When lie attended the Model School he edited Young Canada and sold articles to the Globe and the Christian Guardian. At the age of twenty he started a sporting paper. Hie was him- self an expert amateur athlete, famous at hockey- basebail not yet being invented. He had the sporting- man's7 interest in out-of-way corners, wayside greens, rowing courses on the Bay, nooks and crannies and land- marks on the island, back-country glens that -have since growin into fashionable Rosedale, the charmed canyon of the Don, and the picturesque gorge of the Humnber. At the age of twenty-five Robertson was a self-taught newspaper man with bis own publishing plant and job press and a p-!ace on the staff 'of the Conservative paper called the Leader. Hie afterwards helped to found the Telegrapk, which ran five years, went to England as correpondent and business manager for the Toronto Globe, and in tbree years hie was back in Toronto manag- ing the Nation, a weely edited by Goldwin Smith. Here began a somnewhat remarkable friendsbip'be- tween the most fanious literary figure in America and the man who was about to, originate the Evening Tele- gramn. Goldwin Smith had the faculty of taking a deep interest in ail sorts of people as mucli unlike himself as possible. Robertson Nvas one of them. We have no record that Robertson ever endorsed the Professor's views on commercial and political. union between Canada and the Unit2d States. But when Robertson confided to Goldwin Smnith that lie had an ambition to start an evening paperin Toronto the Oxford Professor generously placed $ioooo at bis disposaI. With much less than this ainount the astute pioneer bought the plant of somne defunct paper and camne out with bis ]ittle Telegram, sold for a cent a copy, the coppers piously lugged to, the bank every day in a patent pail by John Ross Robertson.",
         "John, Ross Robertson Toronto was then a city of about zoo,ooo people with an old-Glasgow area of warehiouses and Scotch clerks, English bricklayers, imaporýted servant girls, an Irish colony in what is now St. John's Ward, with a large population ofHebrews and Italians, two or three budding millionaires, a host of oratorical politicians, a thriving university with a Scotch presi,-dent, and a number of respectable alIdermen with no salMi. lI tbis slow but higbly initeresting city Robertson catered to, a small workaday populace with a paper wbich soon set the fashion for looking on ils front page for a job, an employee, or a lost brooch. Hie had an original idea and he worked ic wefl. How the idea prospered through haxd times and good management was tersely expressed by the proprietor himnself rnany years later at an Associated Press meeting in New York. \"Gentlemen,\" he spluttered as lie stuck bis eyeglasses on bis nose, \"\" I hear you discussing the prernium system as a bribe to people to, take your papers. The Toronto Telegran lias 8i,ooo circulation in the city of Toronto and has neyer asked a maxn for a subscription.\u003e' When Robertson started the Telegram in 1876, al the newspapers li Toronto combined had less than 8i,ooo- circulation. What this mani is who remains our most conspicuous example of personal journalismn since the days of Edmund E. Sheppard on Saturday Nigs Can neyer be told except by examining 1dm with the saine jealous care that lie hirnself lias *expended on the landrnarks of Toronto. Hie is hirnself Toronto's most interesting Lnldmark. Absolutely and petulantly imipressive, tota]ly demo- cratic and simple, bigotedly a friend of the people, and always favourable to, a rumpus-this self-erigendered interpreter of a restless deniocracy neyer could have been conventionally cribbed li a common sanctum. There was always the street, the landmark corner, the mani wlose nose was out of joint--or ouglit to, be-the crank witli a message, the red-rag uprooter, the sinigle- taxer, the innovator, and the muckraker. AI these and 24",
         "John Ross Robertson as many otbers may find in the Telegram the glorifted embodiment of their voice in the affairs of a common- wealth. No man ever bas too lurid an indictment of the intake pipe or the ensemble of an art exhibition to be denied the columns of the Telegram. \" Confound you! \" blurted Robertson one day to an artist while raxnpaging in bis office over a sketch of some old landmark which the artist was raaking. \" Why don't you get mad, sir? Wby don't you ever get mad? \" Let a citizen representing some needy cause coi-ne to the Tel egram proprietor for a donation\u003e and listen -£o the abuse lie gets, the cholerie thumping of the table, the foaming tirade of language; tili he takes bis bat inc despair. \"Wait a bit! Give me your address,\" snaps the irascible philantbropist. And he jots it down. Next day along goes a cheque, with a note adjuring the recipient neyer to breathe a syllable of this. A few years ago one of bis old proof readers \u003clied. R\u003c',bertson bad known hlm intimately and bad abused him like a pickpocket times witbout number, tiil tbe man feit neglected without .a scolding from the eagle- eyed edi-tor-mn-chief. He was in Europe wben arrange- ments were being made for the xnans funeral. The office cabled him. There was some doubt meanwhlle as to whether one or two carrnages could be hired. A cable from, Robertson settled it. There could be a score of carrnages if need be; be would pay ail bis. Very next time one bears of hlm be is thick into a plot to discard ail merely respectable candidates for tbe mayoralty and to logý-roll into the chair somebody at wbom ail smug, Sabbatb-going ratepayers sbould 1ifr their bands li deprecation. This newcomer may be a pure neophyte who, by splitting a vote, may get the chair and become a mannikin for the Tdegram*-wiho wiil see that lie measures up to the potentialities of the position.* Or lie may be an adventurer bold enougli ta startie the council chamber by rising again and again to a point of disorder. He is the Telegramn norniee. Let the people elect hlm, and that coilege of municipal 25",
         "John Ross Robertson wisdom will see that he sobers down and broadens out to the needed dimensions of a chief magistr.te. [n 1915 the Telegram got into the mayor's chair a man who surprised even himself by winning the election rnany thousands ahead of Mis nearest opponent, a fellow- controller of good standing. The scene at the Telegram offices the night of the election was quite beyond the power of any descriptive artist on the staff to portray. Froin the lower Bay Street point of view it was the greatest victory ever achieved in Toronto. As a municipal adventure it was that and more. The author of Land- marks knew it. Neyer since Toronto emerged from the tops of the maples had there been such an obvions declaration of the whims of the generai populace, a majority of whom, read the Telegram. The newspaper boss of themunicipality had triumphed. He had carried the Telegram to another milestone of achievement. Still the Landmarks came ont, week by week some new light on a dark corner, when it seemed long ago as though every historic cranny of the city had been rummaged by this anianuen.:s of the archaic. With a fresh black Panatella in bis teeth the proprietor sticks bis thumbs in bis -waistcoat and remembers that on yondei~ corner, now a hole in the ground with teamn of borses 'and picks and shovels busy there was once a faxùily by the naine of -~ a grand-aunt of soins- body iu which was married to the balf-brother of the man whose uncle was chief of police in the year that the old brewery was pulled down to niake room for an orphans' bome-whi-ch would be somewhere about half- way between the year that Mackenzie's rebels- marched to Montgomery's Tavern and the year that- Colonel Denison's father organised the militia of Toronto. Meanwhile there is hockey. The genial boss goes to, the gaines; sits in bis fur-lined greatcoat at the rink- side, haïvk-eyeing the players of to-day, remembering as in a Homeric dreani the experts of long ago. Hockey is neyýer dead; masonry is neyer dead; municipal muddles are always on baud;. the people on Parliainent Hil are ail wrong again; Laurier bas blundered-G.oxns school",
         "John Ross Robertson question or other that takes the Telegramn for a day or two further afield than Toronto. But wait a moment-to-norrow evening no invita- tions out; old cronies that miglit have corne to, the bouse rnust be telephoned to stay away. It is the even- 'ing before the nurses and the hundreds of aiiing children up at the Children's Hospital are to be trekked away to the Island Home. The hot days are at band. The big brick building is noisy, dusty, and hot. The cbildren -most of them too poor to have weIl-dressed. parents- rnust be got ready for the grand cheerful procession down the streets to the ferryboats across to, the Lake- side Home on the Island. The nurses mnust be directed. To-morrow the big bouse of littie ghost lives will be alrnost deserted for the siumner. And in the morning of that day the busy city pauses for a moment to take off its hat to the genius of the crotchety philanthropist who made it the one grand hobby of bis career to carry out the Christ idea as far as he niigbt arnong the children. Here also lie is boss. No nurse and no doctor, no parent or guardian mnust interfere. The self-centred benevolence of the mnan who created the hospital and the greatest nurses' home in Ainerica rnust be permitted to play the genial despot. It makes no difference for a while wbo is Mayor of Toronto or wbat the aldermen are doing about the intake pipe. That wiIl corne to- rnorrow. Next day the grand -crank of benevolence notices that for days a man bas not been on bis assign- ment-why? \"'Sick at borne,\" is the laconic response. Up cornes a rig and in an bour the Telegram chief is in tbe iii man's bouse; finds lie bas more needs than his salary-and raises bis salary. Once there was a campaign to raise money for ex- tension to an Infants' Home. A lady subscriptionist called upon Robertson, supposmng that lie would be one of the first men to contribute for that purpose. \" Oh!1\" snapped Robertson, taking a scurrilous rampage round bis rug. '\" Oh!1 No---sorry to, say I",
         "John Ross Robertson have a littie affair of my own up there on College Street. You understand--?\"' \"Why, yes, Mr. Robertson, but-\" 'Well, weli!1 That's answered, isn't it? Good morningi\"' Next day the lady canvasser reported the failure to the head of committee. \" Dear, oh dear!'\u003e\" was the response. \" I wouldn't have liad you go near him for a donation-for anything.\" \"Ol-why flot? \" \"Well, you see, for months now every pint of certified niilk left at the Infants' Home lias been paid for by the mani who bult the Children's H-ospital.\" Three years ago a rare collection of old sketches, prints, etcbings, pen-and-ink reprints, and originals, al illustrating more or lessi remote periods ini the history of Canada and its attý, was presented to the City of Toronto by the author of Landmarks. As; a civic insti- tution this gift is quite as unique as the remarkable and historic citizen who made it. By and by cornes Chiristmas Eve. John Ross Robertson is flot at home. No, lie is up at the Hospital Christmas Tree; and lie is Santa Claus in a coonskin coat witli sleigh-bells jingling and a benign white beard that is a mere apology of a make-up for hlm. The laugliter of tlie children is the music of bis sonl From cot to cot goes the benevolent fakir, liandlng out gifts and good cheer. And when the snow-flakes, drive up and down the street on the nortli wind lie goes home, huinching under lis cap the burly, lopsided old bene- factor, smoking a long black cigar and thinking lie sees i the face of the clouds or tlie quiet of his roomn the joy-faces of littie children made glad by hlma and the work which lie lias made the one grand hobby of a strange temperamental career.",
         "SIR WILFRID LAURIER AN aged actor sat by a club fireplace in Toronto a year or two ago and cailed up the pleasing shades of Henry Irving. Among the multi-coloured stories he told of that great actor was one wbich rather topped them al as a bit of daring flot unniixed with mild blasphemy. «LIt was at the funeral,\" he said in a voice that mingled pathos with a tang of diabolical humour. \"LIt was a tremendous pomp as it should have been. Lt was a great stage scene as it couldn't help. It was brimful of pageant and sorrow was that setting, and none of us that had worked with Henry Irving ini life begrudged him one iota of it. But there was a turn in that scene that none of ùis expected. The day was cloudy as befltted so solern an occasion. But at a pause in the organ and the service there came, as I remember it, such a beautiful blaze of light through the stained-glass windows, and it fell upon old Sir 'Enry there in his coffin with ail the glory of a great sunset. And some wag turns to me and he says with snûling awe, ' Lor bless my soûl!1 'Qo but Sir 'Enry ever could have arranged that? '\"Y Let those who kIxow Sir Wilfrid Laurier best fit the story on as they choose. I know of no other unconscion- able mixture of great qualities and opportunising melo- draina that suggests the great French-Canadian leader so vell as Henry Irving. Laurier's whole life has been an almost continuous play. W'hen he flrst becarne a Commoner at the age of thirty-three, lie was too pas- sionately chivairous to be aware of bis place on the stage of professional politics. When he becanie Liberal leader in- 1887v, le was so fervently obsessed with the doctrine of free trade that he ahnost satisfled Goldwin Smnith. When lie became Premier in 1896, he was the first politician of Quebec and the most outspoken protagonist of British institutions axnong ail our English-speaking '29",
         "Sir Wilfrid Laurier orators. On that subject lie could orate with as rnuch near-sublimity as that peculiarly decorative style of oratory would permit. Between 1896 and 1911 Laurier displayed himself as the champion of the British pre- ference; as a sort of poetic world figure at jubilees and imperial conferences; as the friend of the dual language ini Canada; as the sometixnes doubtful champion of the Ultrainontane element in politics; the joint-author with Mr. Fielding of a high tariff for revenue; in Quebec the voice of the Frenchiuan; in Tory and British Toronto the equally perfervid apostie of the British connec- tion; in the House of Commons as the projector of the Canadian navy; in the West as the man who had de- clared himself '\u003ca democrat to the hit \"; at university conclaves as an inveterate disciple of the intellectual movement; among rustic folk, whether Frenchi or English, as the prin'ce of easy entertainers and the originator of the phrase \" follow my white plume'\u003e; finally, in 1911, as the fatalistic devotee of restricted reciprocity-which with other elements best known to hizuseif defeated hlm., Since igii he lias been a leader who holds a defeated but hopeful party in the sure grip of genius wedded to experience, and in spite of the stars in their courses fighting for Sisera stil indulges a vision that lie wiJl once again be Premier of Canada. In sucli a career and such a man there is a vitality for which we can find no parallel iu Canada but that of Sir John Macdonald. Laurier's whole life lias been much of a paradox. Ris early tastes were for literary studies. He may have liad some -inclination for the priesthood- and what a cardinal lie would have made 1 In law witli- out politics lie would have been only less brilliant thaL lie lias been as a statesman and a politician. There is no learned profession in which he would not have been a strikidng figure and a great achievement. But lie was neyer profound enougli to becoxue a philosopher nor intense enough for a tremendous bigot. As a man of culture Laurier is best expressed by bis love for historical reading and bis mastery of formai expression. 17is reading of Englisli history and literature 30",
         "Sir Wilfrid Laurier has been extensive. Some, of bis Frencli-Canadian disciples of an earlier day complain that lie has, Anglicised himself too muci. B-is speech in the bi-lingual debate disappointed tliem because it did flot go far enougli. Tliey allege that lie lias become an old Tory incapable of expressing the highest aspirations of his race which as a great Liberal in 1896 lie did so well. That is the extreme Quebec point of view. The extreme western opinion of Laurier is that lie lias no magic on the prairies; neitlier for that matter, they say, lias Borden. îlhe West has, littie regard for the personality of political leaders wlio depend so mucli upon personality. Tlie West wants radical men. Laurier is too old to, be a radical. In the West lie is accounted too mudli a Frenchinan; in Quebec too littie; in Ontario--less of an Anglo-Saxon entliusiast than lie was twenty years ago. With so many cdintrary reputations in a land of many cross currents in politics it is tlie best part of philosopliy ini Laurier to, retire somewhat into himself. 1-e lias a good library and stili reads much. Only a couple of years ago lie was re-reading Dickens and an Englisl version of Uncle Tom's Cabin, a book wbicli as a young man lie liad \u0026-rst read ini Frendch. Be stili studies, democracy by the historical method. There are books and essays lie niglit write. Be wiIl perliaps neyer write tlem. In pure art lie lias achieved no distinctive progress. In pictures he does not pretend to be even a dilettante; and in mnusic lie has neyer sliown any passionate pre- ference for anything but mediocrity. This is scarcely a criticism. Laurier is himself--or lias been-tie subject for the painter, the theme for the poet, and the motif for the musician. With so many exquisite qualities, the wonder is, tiat lie ever became a successful politician. In a bigler key he miglit have liad mucli of tlie astute blending of opposite traits tlat made Disraeli sudh a conundnnn. Being a Latin instead oi a Bebrew, lie lias beconie tlie adroit master of niany superficialities. He is at tlie saine time a past grand-master at tlie art of inspiration; a man who in bis old age refiects tlie aura of wlat le used to be, or what it seemed lie miglit lave",
         "Sir -Wilfrid Laurier become in a country that once paid bornage to the personality of politicâi leaders more than it does at the preseiit day or perliaps ever will do again. It is the animazing humanity of the man-cail it huxnanism if you wil-tbat bas kept his political vitality so high. At the age *of seventy-five there is, no orator in Canada who can better and more Iegitimately sway a multitude or a Parliainent, always by ineans, of a strong sense of rlietoric and a facile if flot deep-seated instinct for dramatic: effects. There are limes when Sir Wilfrid is dramatic; turnes when he is obviously theatrical. As a stump speaker he prefers the limeliglit and naturally gets it. As a debater ini the Hlouse he clings to form sometimes at the expense of substance; As the champion of what he considers in some parts of Canada an oppressed minority, he rises to a lieight of .expression which is very close to real draina not without sincere and untheatrical passion. Even wlien silent lié expresses mucli. Merely bis look of inscrutable gravity mn the House is eloquent. He scans, tlie-face of an Oppo- sition speaker with a strange penetration. Laurier is used to following debates. Ne man in Parliament to-day bas bad sucli experience in the value of the spoken word. No parlianientarian bas a greater sense of the im- portance of wlihat a Comnion's speech feels like in the newspapers. In ail tbe arts of expression fhat please botb friend and political foe, that convince the neutral and that sway the multitude wbether in Frenchi or English, Sir Wilfid lias 11o peer ln this country. He was born to, be a xnarvellously expressive mian; to, get im- pressions easily, to make bimself iristinctively one wtith whatever crowd or clique or creed lie may liappen ta be arnongst, and in becoming the voice of the assembly to preserve a native dignity that nevger permits even a yokel or a mere jingoising patriot ta, become in the least degree familiar. Accordlng to the lime and the place and the occasion ht- is eîther the climax of sociability or the acme of nnstudied and inipenetrable reserve. To bis close political friends lie is seldom, aloof. But lie miay be to, one 32",
         "F",
         "S'ir Wilfrid Laurier of bis own Ministers-when he had them-as inflexible as the moral law; in the next room half an hour later the master of \"'sunny ways \" to some stranger whom, lie miglit neyer meet again, bu t for that one occasion missing no opportunity to be sociable and to some extent very cbarxningly frank. Durlng the summer of 1915 a you.ng Canadian artist painted a portrait of Sir Wilfrid which now.haugs in the Legisiative Building at Quebec. Day after day as the ex-Premier watched the portrait grow on the easel ln that room of bis on IParliament Hill, lie found occasion to give advice to the artist. \"'No,\u003e he said, \"'you must flot put into that portrait the sunny ways of wbich the newspapers speakc so often. You must make me appear as a ruler of men.\" And it 'was so. Dualities of this kind are flot uncommon. 0f all pro- fessions polities most causes au otherwise simple mani to become complex. Laurier was neyer lntended by nature to be, an austere Roman. He bas becorne such by circumstance and habit. We shall neyer begin to understand hm until we recognise in hlm a particular species, of double culture. Even then he is not obvious. The first lime I saw and heard Laurier lie addressed a political meeting lu Toronto in :r895. The speech was an orational lecture on British institutions. At thaL. lime the Frencli-Canadian leader had corne to a climax iu the study of a thlng that bad fascinated hlm, since bis days at college. In that particular place the spectacle of the greatest Frenchi Canadian of bis time eloquently expounding tlie virtues of British constitutional goveru.. ment was very imnpressive. One- migbt bave naively sunnised that to reacli sucli a height of vindication lie had renounced some of bis Frenchi Canadianism. But lu the last days of the parliamentary session of igi6 Laurier enuuciated a defence of two languages in a]mos t passionate terms. In :[895 be expressed an lutellectual preference. In 1916 lie fell back upon aýtemperamental instinct. Between the two lies the alluring if somewhat",
         "-Sir Wilfrid Laurier tortuous career that makes this man the master illusion of our polities. Méost of what maires Laurier consununately interesting is to, be found in bis temperanxuent. That is Gallic. It is the fashion to say that lie is typicalliy an aristocrat. Buit lie was flot born so in the village of St. Lin, son of a land surveyor, attending the village sehool, tauglit by a curé who must have seen in him the embryo, of a possible cardinal. He has perliaps greater finesse than the average aristocrat. Hie lias not been denied the luxury of interpreting the commion people. Neither lias lie ever permitted, himself to be seduced into any simula- lion of a man in overails. One of bis Cabinet colleagues tells liow upon a certain occasion Sir Wilfrid went on a trip among the river-drivers; how lie fared with men ini camp and sat on the river batik to watch. the logs tumn- bling downstreamn. But Rt is not on record that lie was ever seen-as tlie late Sir James Wihitney often was- about the Parliament buildings in bis shirt-sleeves. Laurier was neyer known to be negligent in bis attire. He would as lief be accused of bad syntax as suspected of being slovenly i the smallest degree about bis clothes. M-e is one of the best-dressed men of the times, in any country. In bis young days lie miust. have been some- tbing of a dandy. Neither is lie of spirituelle physique. He lias neyer wrestled witli any peculiar -infirmity. Hie is a strong, well-kit figure; bis hands are large and bis shoulders by no means narrow. Hie lias tlie physical virility to endure liard scriminages and-the sbrewd sense to spare birnself any tests of endurance that are not necessary. PersonalIy lie is charming. Ris smile is ahnost femin- ineiy magnetic. Mis Eng]ish speech lias a délectable Iimp that contrasts oddly witli bis Anglo-Saxon fiuency. Having learned Englisli largely thraugli reading of literature lie lias imbibed the culturraà form and omitted most of the vernacular. Laurier using slang would be more sliocldng than Laurier in overalis. There is that fastidions uerfection of form about Laurier which ilings a kmnd of glamour about bis simplest 34",
         "Sir Wilfrid Laurier actions. He is neyer ungraceful. He is always somewhat poetic. When to lis grace and his excellent form. and lis poetry he sometimesadds zeal eloquence lie becomes a * remarkably higli expression of personality. When, as often in lis most obvious political stunip speeches, lie becomes theatrical, the effect on the crowd is that of a pleasing concession to the temper of the moment, upon those who know hlm best that of a somewhat irritating compromise with himself. We must have here and there a higli priest of form and expression. We owe that to our parllaxnentary traditions\u003e which may Lecome obso- lete in an era of government by business, but will long survive as a ritual. These are matters of form. Laurier is mucli more. He bas been accused by some adniirers of being a states- man. It is flot on record that he ever confirmed that. \"I am. a politician -\" was one of bis latter-day sayings. By that lie meant nothing uncomplimentary to himself. Had lie tried being a statesman as Edward 13lake did- *impossible! He had the exaniple of Blake, who retired from bis party and let Laurier succeed hùm on a matter of political principle. Blake's successor was not of so retiring a character. It must be admitted that Laurier loves politics wbich in Canada is a much more variable art than in most countries. There is no intimate turn, no legitimate trick of Canadian -statecraft, that lie lias not practised as a master. The stranger may think lie lias fathomed a perfect gentleman in an hour of casual conversation. But lie bas flot touched the outside of the essential Laurier. No man could have headed the Liberal party as lie lias done in Canada for jtxst about thirty years, ha]f of that time an uninterrupted Premier, without becoming more of a strategist than is required for polite conversation. It must not be forgotten that Sir Wilfid Laurier is the first Frencli-Canadian Premier of confederated Canada. It may be a good while again Mèfre a Frenchi Canadia-n takes sncb a place. No man will ever have the opportunity to do so mucli towards nationalising",
         "Sir Wi lfrid Laurier the two root races of this country. Boru and by tempera- ment a French Canadian, he has put the weight of bis intellectual development on Anglo-Saxon ideas. He has become a magnificent hybrid. In so doing, even had there been no more Canada than Ontario and Quebec, Laurier must have made himself a political expert of uncommon character. In this he had a shining example in Sir John Macdonald, the Ceit who captured Quebec and neyer leamned the French language well. But in the gentie art of capturing Ontario, with a much greater handicap due to No Popery, the P.P.A., and the Orange vote, Sir Wilfrid had littie to suifer by comparison with Sir John. At the samne tirne he set out to capture the new West wbich came on the political map ini bis Premiership and largely by means of the development programme undertaken, by bis Government ini partner- ship with three great ýystems of railway. When to these we add the task of pleasing Conservative British Colum- bia, and on the other side of the continent the Maritime Provinces which neyer became unanimously converted even to Confederation, it must be adxnitted that Wilfrid Laurier had need to be much more than a statesman in order to keep himself at the head of his party. Hée is indeed a politician. And no Canadian politician ever appreciated power more than Sir Wilfrid. When he wished to be depicted as a ruler of men, it was not merely as head of a Cabinet, but as chief of a great party and farst citizen in the country as Premier. The Liberals were quite as willing to, concede him the power even to the extent of letting him. dominate the party. Liberalism has become a species of Latirieîism. With so indispensable a duality at the head of it there was nio other way. Under Laurier and in partnersbip with bira, Liberal platforms have changed to suit the time, the place, and the occasion with quite starting resuits. \" Consistency, the hobgoblin of littie minds.,\" has neyer been much of a virtuous obstacle to party goverament in this country. Unredemption of promises and renegation of platforms, is the first charge to be formulated against .auy new govermcnt, some- 36",
         "Sir Wilfrid Laurier times almost before -the last polling booth lias been heard from in the wilds of Cariboo. As both parties are accused of it, we must conclude that in a new country which stili prefers constitutional government to revolutions, it must be a form of political. development as necessary as immigration and increase of trade. What are the distinctive traits of Sir Wilfrid as a practical politician in the business of government may be left to a grand jury of his associates. Most of them have made it a practice neyer to tell him unpaiatable truths. They understand lis preference for optimism. Laurier has a genlus for dodging uncomfortable details. This he genîally explains by admittirig whimsically, \"«I was always a lazy dog,\" which he scarcely ineans. No mere exquisite could have doue what lie lia-, done iu practical politics. No dilettante would have had the sagacity to pick out associates wlio could Iighten bis labours. Laurier's first Cabinet was a coilege of experts, some of whom, such as Andrew Blair and Israel Tarte, he let go when lie found thev were not absolutely tract- able. Dissension lie neyer could tolerate. He himself stood for a united Canada in race and language. Hie would have a uuited Cabinet. Wlienever he found it necessary to let men go lie did it swiftly and witliout apparent remorse-thougli lie kept bis friendship for men even. when lie politicaliy exiled tliem. Witli ail bis genius for mauaging men and governing a party by tlie art of leadership, there lias always been an element of good luck in the Laurier career. His Premiership covered fifteen years of uuparalIeled expan- sion ini this country. It was an era of prodigal, spending and not mucli accounting. Publicly and privately men were forgettiug the liard times past and somewliat mortgaging tlie roseate future for the sake of accomplish- ing big business. Laurier's governmeut took the lead. We liad a great country. Bverybody said so. Borrow- iug by liundreds of millions, levyiug for population on almost an-y decent country, pushing out two new trans- continental railways to rival t0-he C.P.R., building great public works for posterity-tiere was no lack of faitli 37",
         "Sir Wilfrid Laurier in Canada during most of the Laurier regime; and it neyer became necessary for the Laurier governiment to do much national .stocktaking. In fact, Laurier suited our temperament. On the whole, we shall always be glad lie was Premier for so, long. The country needed nmen with imagination. Laurier's first Cabinet caused most: of us to gasp. H1e had ransacked the Provinces for experts, most of whom were also men of good standing. The plain people were weary of political ear-hling coupled with liard times. La-arier's smashing of the old sin-accumnulating Con- servative machine made it possible to begin an era of new, even if somewhat fantastic ideals. The advent of a great Frenchi Canadian to the Premiership was itself something of a romance. After the long bedevilments of National Policy and No Popery it was a relief to, take as llrst citizen a man wlio liad neyer believed in tlie N.P. a.nd neyer clisbelieved'in the Pope. That romance niiglit have been brief had the new Premier, then just nicely into his fifties, not been known to both parties as a man of botli great eloquence and political, sagacity. Laurier had a genius for discerning talent in other men. Is own talent was for leadership. In most other departments of statecraft lie reniained a splendid amateur. Laurier's leadership belonged to the Hlouse, the party, and the people. As a parlia-trentarian he stands higli, thougli as a parliaxnentary expert lie is second to at least one of the members of bis late Cabinet. As a debater hie is eminent, but less distinguislied in pure debate than, one member of the present Cabinet. As an orator lie lias always main'tained the higliest traditions of parliamentary usage as expressed by Gladstone, Briglit, and Edward Blake-and Laurier. He is a master of stately formn in English. H1e loves the climax and the resounding period whose worst because rnost complicated expression w-s the regular form. of bis old leader and predecessor, Edward Blake. What lie may be ini Frenchi is best understood by *those who know that language. But the speeches of Laurier as recorded in Hansard over a period of forty years reacli much -the 38",
         "Sir Wilfrid Laurier highest level of parliamentary literature to be found in that ainazing wilderness of great, mediocre, and bad speeches. On the stump Laurier's eloquence is vastly different. Here he is often best represented by the newspaper report, the camera\u003e and the moving picture. He knows ail the artful devices that catch the promiscuous crowd. He knows equally how to hold the habitant who speaks littie or no English, thie Ontario audience that knows no French, and the mixed audience anywhere that takes its politics from the nearest dispensary and its forensie sensations froin whatever orator that best knows the gaine of twanging the racial or-the national harp. For whatever devious ways Laurierism has pursued in this country we have ourselves to, thank. Ontario has neyer been satisfied to take the natural consequences of a great French Canadian uniting races by means of a party, but has tried to make an Anglo-Saxon out of Laurier, which is temperamentally impossible. Quebec was flot content to have a French-Canadian Premier and race leader ini one man: she must have a leader of French Canada outside the old parties ini the person of Henri Bourassa. The West grew politicaliy weary of the whole race problem. as it applied to the East, and expected of a Liberal lea*der even greater concessions than restricted re.ciprocity which defeated the party in 1911. The wonder is that in trying to please such a variety of people, Sir Wilfrid has managed to retain bis supreme hold on the party. That is a proof of his genius for leadership. Any successor to Launier in that office nmist play a gaine considerably different from, bis. We may have to find a substitute for old-line politics in some forin of unemotional business goverinnent. The success- fui party leader of new Canada may have to be less of an orator, less of a political manipulator, and much more of a shrewd sociological student who knows less about parliament, party, and sectional issues and more about national probleins that must be solved in the naine of",
         "Sir Wilfrid Laurier the whole .people. But that kind of man must become a student, even if flot a disciple, of Laurnerisma. 1'olitics, even in a new country, is essentially a busi- ness of looking backward. We leave it to, the sociologist and the econoxnic dreamer to look ahead. In ail our Canadian retrospect among figures bistoric, martial, clerical, adventurons, we shali neyer behold one of finer mould or greater patriotising significance than Wilfrid Laurier-who at this time of writing expects again to be Premier of Canada at an age when an average maxi of business considers hixnself too old for anything but to, take the chair at a directors' meeting. 40",
         "GENERAL STEELE Now that the philosophy of courage has taken hold of the worl - it is more than coxnmonly interesting to consider the character of a man who so far as popular reputation goes seems neyer to have had any fear. Major-General Steele, now doing a somewhàt conven- tional turn as camp commander i the south of England, enoy the distinction of originating many of our heroic egns about the North-West Mounted Police. From. the day when, in 1874, at the age of twenty-:five, he swung out to the plains as troop sergeant-major amnong the red- skins, until the day he pulled up stakes at Capetown and resigned as commander of the South African Con- stabulary, Sam Steele bas 'been the legendary hero of this country. None of our poets ever had-the courage toli iortalise him as Kipling did \"Bobs.' Nevertheless, with a few minor aniendments as to size and the like, we could fit that ecstatic eulogy on to Sam Steele, who completely satisfies the Homeric imagination of the small boy, the grown mani, and the doddering veteran with bis quaver and stick. Ail the dare-devil haloes wom by jack Sheppard, Dick Turpin, and Buffalo Bill, seem to have been taken for remnants to make a becoming aureole for this Canadian rougli-rider. He belonged to the saine robustious era of Canadian Iiistory as Ned Hanlan, the worid's greatest oarsman, John Murray, the fabulous Canadian detective, and Donald A. Smith when be was the conqueror of the north. Steele is fodder for the heroising imagination. In recal]ing bis exploits and bis constructive work as a plainsman lawgiver, we indulge a fondness for the good old days in our development when the IUgood mani\" was he who could knuckle the",
         "General Steele busliwhackcing buily into a snivel or ride with the majesty of the law redcoated and alone into a camp of redskins. Ail this is very boyish admiration. But no new country is worth while without it. Canada has had a fair average of these immnortalising lieroes, whose claim to national regard was not that of intellect\u003e nor of art, nor even conventional, saintly religion, but the quality of the mnan who had nerves of steel, muscles of iron, and the moral fibre of John the Baptist. Boni ini Ontario, Samn Steele took to soldiering ini the days of the Fenian Raid, being then a youtli of seventeen. When lie foilowed the lure of the great West, after the organisation of the mnounted police, he had already learned much of the acadenuic: side of soldiering. He was born to be a soldier. There is no great general or cominon ranker in any of the great armies now struggling in Europe wlio lias any more of the prime quality of the great soldier than has Major-General Samn Steele. We prefer to eliminate the badge of rank. Steele rnight have ail the ranks, titles, medals, and crosses of nuilitarism, and neyer be greater by means of tliem than lie was when he came before the imagination as plain Sam Steele, the greatest rough-rider and lawgiver we ever had in tlie finest body of picked, plainsmen ever known in the world. It was the man Steele, commonly known as Samn; the man on the horse who lef t a trail of red courage ail over the land that begins at Rat Portage and ends at Herscheil Island ini the region of the North Pole, and afterwards fiung a loop of darixng and spiendour over the kopjes and the veldts of Southi Affica from, Mafeking to Capetown. As a military figure this man belongs to tlie same empire category as Gordon, Roberts, and Kitchener. He is flot and neyer was a rnilitary genius. H1e was a bold personal force tliat counted for mucli before we ever heard of modem war organisation. Ze xvas tlie complement of the six-sliooter and the huinan end of a carbine slung over the saddle. A batteiy of siege guns would have added nothing to the personal prestige of Colonel Steele. Khaki does not distinguisli him. Uniforms neyer did 42",
         "General Steele more for hlm than to make hlmi startlingly conspicuous as a redcoat to the ripressible redskin. He could have togged himself in a deerskin coat and been as tremendous. But he was one of a superb man-organisation that in a formative and critical period of nation-development dotted itself sparingly over a vast no-law land recently taken over from the ironclad regime of the Hudson's Bay Company and Donald A. Smith. As the administra- tor of law Steele and the few men who were bis seniors in planting the police posts ail over that furpost and buffalo-range land were the legitimate successors to the resident governor and bis scattered staff of factors at the trading-posts. Mere law without trade was-a strange thing to the red man. These redcoats who stuck up littie barracks shacks anywhere on the prairie were the embodimxent of sheer law built upoxi maxi-force, discipline, and physical courage. They were a daring lot. The presumption of a corporal's guard pitching camp on the Old Maxi River and beginning to boss the natives along with the w1aisky smugglers, the blockade runners, the borderland bad mien, the riotons navvies building the C.P.R., and the turbulent miners in the Rockies, was an example of suiperb audacity. The building up of a mounted police morale such as became world-famous on the great plains of western Canada depended upon just such men as Samn Steele. He dlaims no individual credit; brusquely and modestly regarding himnself as the associate of strong men who planted law li the terrorless and made it possible for civilisation to march li there with ' no greater fiare-up thaxi onie brief civil war in the shape of a rebellion. Before the police went out i 1874, there had been the frrst of these outbursts. it was fitteexi years before the next. By that time Steele had clixxbed bigh in the ranks of the Mounted Police. During the pre-railway epoch from 1874 to 1881 this no-fearing maxi on a horse became a famillar figure fromn end to end of a law-making land. When the whisky smugglers anid the restless red men were put under the crixnp of haif a battalion of redcoats",
         "General S£ee1e operating- froma far scattered posts the railway-building era flung a new burden on the schedules of the tralsmen. The work of administering the North-West was alwaysý a comparatively simple matter when its own internai 4 proi-lems were the chief thing. The irruption of the railway navvies changed the situation. It was necessary to double the force. The meni who built the C.P.R. were tougli characters;- otherwise they neyer would have gone into such a crude country. They weere more un- tractable than the Indians. Inspector Steele had charge of the police in the mouantain section where the toughest of the navvy gangs concentrated. Ordinary darmng such as kept the natives in awe made a feeble impression on these men when they 'were tinder the double influence of liquor and slack pay. In the whole moiutain section there were seven police posts with a total force of twenty-flve officers and men to keep order axnong more than a thousand navvies. At Golden City, one of the police posts, there was a strike for payment in full impromptu, which on the C.P.R., as manager Van Horne knew, was not always practicable in sucli a coumtry. A nmber of miners joined in with the strikers, who becaxne a mob. One of Steele's men rode into the towvn a.nd began to arrest a drunIr and disorderly leader. The mob rose in fury-and Sergeant Fu2ry camne on the scene from barracks. because bis chief Steele was sick abed. Fury, a bulldog littie man, with two c3nstables, went to, a saloon to get the desjperado. The mob rose. Fury posted back to barracks to get orders froma Steele as to how fax he should use violence. These police were always economic of their shootingý- irons. Steele froin bis bunk ordered absolute shooting of all resisters. For the third time the desperado was taken and the mob followed. When the constables camne to a wooden bridge neax barracks, the mob wvith kuives and revolvers began to, rush the bridge. Fury turned to cover bis men. It was no use. The maob's whiskified blood was Up. It was then that the unexpected came. And it was Steele who from bis bunk came rushing down the road,",
         "General Steele the iron, unfaltering maxi who with bis six-shooter in bis haud flung hirnself on the bridge axid shouted that he would shoot dead the first man who attempted to cross. Steele could shoot. He was the human end of a fire-armn. * A bullet from bis direction meant more thaxi ten from some men. There were guxis enough to, have riddled hlm. * He knew it. But the instant moral force of this sick ins-pector with the one sure gun anid the steady eye and the nnfiinchlng nerve made it impossible for a single mob guxi to go up or a foot to strike the bridge. The arrest was completed and the mob dispersed. That was merely an episode i the work of this maxi who, when the Rebelon of 1885 broke out following the near completion of the C.P.R., took command of the cavairy arm of General Strange's force operating from, Calgary northward. The last spectacular episode i that upheaval of the Indians and the half-breeds was the trackIng of the band of Big Bear which laid siege to Fort Pitt, drove out the thirty-odd police on a scow dowxi the river, and took prisoners ail the civilians, toting them away among a thousaxid redskins i their carts to the bogs of the Beaver River. Pitt was burned. Steele anid bis men went out north to, corral Big Bear. At rimes during the long marches and encamxpments of soldiers from the east li that Rebellion the question was asked, \"Where are the Mouxited Police? \" That was a serious question li the region of Prince Albert, where muddled orders and lack of understandixigbetween the police axid the troops made the police mucli less effective thaxi they should have been. It was neyer a query i the area from. Calgary to Fort Pitt where Inspector Steele was operatlng against the forces of Big Bear. Had there been more mnen of the type of Steele, or had such a maxi as Steele, who, knew the Ixidians a.nd the half-breeds, been given either more jurisdiction before the outbreak or a bigher command alLer it took place, the littie war li a big land mlght have been averted or ended sooner. ÊýThe xiext ten years saw the Mouxited Police established as a powerful force, flot only along the line of tlie new",
         "General Steele railway anid its branches north and sou-h, but on every outpost liundreds of miles fram the railway. Inspector Steele rose to the post of Superintendent, atterwards toi that of Commissloner with headquarters at Regina. As chief of the greatest constabulary li the world after thirty years of rougbing and toughing, the mani of steel li more thaxi bis naine became fanious as a great biendt of anah ax. H olde one the frest ciieyndt of ana oHis ma.1l knol e the W res a that were converting that country froma semi-barbarism to civilisation, and he was himself the greatest force of them al. As Commissioner of Police in the Territoriesi lie was as inuch, the dictator of that vast incompre- hensible land as Donald A. Smith had been. as head of the great fur company operating from Huadson's Bay. The great movements of population were just beginning li that decade between the completion of the C.P.R. and the discovery of- the Kiondike li the land of noi police. The riders of the plains becaine flot only police, but civil administrators and magistrates, making, dis- pensIng, and lnterpreting law, welding together the disjolnted elements li a new country, carrying out tIhe policy first begui li 1874 of compelling respect for law in a land of natural violence. They absolutely axnazed the rougli-riders across the border by the mechanical ease with whi:ch suci a. scattered force of men ruled a country that by violent methods would have needed a small army. Eternal restraint and the couxage of reserve was the force that always made the mxen under Steele sucli a trexnendous factor i establishing law. The guxi was pulled seldom, but with marvellous effect. The law, not the rûuzzle of the carbine, was made the great force. And it was again the law tha. i 1897 had to be re- asserted in a new and even worse lanid after the discovery of gold i the Yukon. lI this xnan-swallowing counxtry that attracted niany of the desperadoes along with some of the ornaments of civilisation, Colonel Steele, with a sma]I body of police, becaine the chief enforcer of civilised rights. He had gone through too many nerve- 46",
         "General Steele testing scrinu-nages in bis tbirty-one years of trail and barracks on the plains belcw to be daunted by the law- defying menace of the Yukon. Here was a land where nature was so devilish that man-law was a mere whiin. But in this no-law country Colonel Steele as rigidly en- forced the moral riglits of a community as ever lie had done on the prairies. His erilightening iron régime in the Yukon camne as strenuous prelude to his work as the commander of the corps known as the Strathcona Horse ini the South African War. From the edge of Allaska to the toe of South Africa this pioneer in community-maing swung down to the cail of country and Empire-whatever that niight mean. His old friend and predecessor, Strath- cona, had furnished the regiinent. Steele took commnand of it. The work of the Strathcona Horse in Africa was only a natural sequd. to the best work of the Mounted F Police in the Canadian 'West. They were the one small force that to the Boers seemed most like themselves; * the tireless and fearless plainsmen who knew the law of the trait, the code of the armfys and the ethics of the community. After the war was over Colonel Steele remained as the head of the South African Constabulary. Lord Roberts left a big work for Kitchener to L-iish iu that * country. Kitchener left a big work for Colunel Steele who, when lie returned in 1906, knew that seif-govern- ing South Africa was then able to look after its own trails and the enforcement of its own laws. H1e camne back to Canada as a plain soldier wliose best work in three periods was doue. When the greatest of ail wars came and the Empire again seemed to need Samn Steele, at the age of sixty- five he put himself at the service of the country, for which he had already done mucl more than the average statesman's work. H1e helped to organise forces in the West, both in Manitoba and in British Coliubia. He was freely discussed. as the probable commander of the second Canadian contingent. As Major-General Steele lie went to Engla.nd, where lie was given the poat of 47",
         "General Steele camp commander for ail the Imperial forces iu the south camps. It may be that this veteran will neyer get to the front. Whether lie does or flot will make no difference, to the reputation of bis work as a great dispenser of law in new coznmunities, whether lu the arctic or the antarctic regions, or in the temperate zone. Nothing but age can abate the force of such a character. Nothing but a soldiering instinct and a plain sense of duty ever would have ide such a force spend itself in a work that neyer could make him rich lu what some men cal their dedlining years-. Samn Steele is just about the age of many of the great generals directing this war. He is a year or two older than Kitchener, Joffre, Hiindenburg, and Cadorna. Inu all but military genius lie is as great a soldier as any of these. Doubtfnil indeed if any of these world-recognised great soldiers lias quiteý as mucli of the no-fearing quality that stamps the warrior bold lu any age. Quite as pro- blematical, too, if any of.them sacrificed mnore by spend- ing a big force in the work of camps, barracks, and armies instead of building up a fortune or a big business lu civil life. Samn Steele lias the kcind of primai force that makes a man eat lu action ludependent of the precise age lu WhCh hemay happen to live, or of any mere organisa- tion to which lie may belong. And it is quite certain that even the world\u003es greatest war machine was neyer so perfect an organisation of morality and manhood as the marvellous police system, x.7hose esprit de corps and tremendous efficier.cy at low cost was for some. turne under Colonel Steele the admiration of the civilised world.",
         "la, i",
         "BARON SHAUGHNESSY SUDDENLY, almost impetuously, he left his desk and stepped to one of the many big windows that flood the President's.office with light. A regiment was marching past. The street below throbbed with bugles and drums. Silently he watched it when his own figure was in sharp relief against the light-the studious black clothes fas- tidiously fitted, the black necktie, grey hair, moustache, and goatee; erect as a soldier on parade, he looked in silhouette like a first cousin, in larger physical size, of Lord Roberts, who was also an Irishman. For a full minute he stood watching, like some general at the saluting base. That battalion might have been marched into the huge C.P.R. building and hidden in ambush when half the occupants would never have known it. All the battalions thus far organised in the two chief cities of Canada would not equal in number the army of men employed by the C.P.R. from the President's anteroom to the outposting end of the steel, round the world and back. The cost of organising, equipping, and sending abroad Canada's army up to that day had been considerably less than the capitalised assets of the world's greatest transportation system. The machine of the blustering war-lords from the Rhine is no more complicatedly perfect than that which comes to a head at the mahogany desk of Baron Shaughnessy, close to the cough and the clank of mile upon mile of trains in the yards and the hooting of ships that put out to sea with the name of that transportation and travel system on them. Any child could have made such comparisons as he watched Shaughnessy there by the window. Canadians have made a national habit of symbolising the C.P.R., which becomes as necessary to national business as oxygen to the chemical composition of water. It is an 49 D",
         "Baron Shaughnessy axiom about the offices that any man may drop but, as years ago did Van Home and recently McNicoll, and the great humanised machine go on with no more obvious shock to its meclianism than pulling a finger from a bucket of water leaves a liole. But the C.P.R. minus Shaughnessy would, at least, be a different thing to tbink about. Thirty-four years that globe-girclling systemn of tracks and traffie lias known this man wlio camne to it in 188:2 as purchasing agent under Van Homne. At tliat tixne lie had neyer been an officer or even a clerk in any of the departments of construction, traffic, or intelligence in the railroading State of Wisconsin wliere lie was born. He left a country rushing ahead with 50,000,000 people for a slow-moving giant of a land witli less tlian 5,000\u003e000\u003e a couple of thousand miles of railway, no city of more tlian ioo,ooo, scarcely a millionaire, wooden ships build- ing at Quebec a2nd St. John, an overgrown furpost at Winnipeg, no %lieat corning out of the West, and notj an elevator west of Owen Sound. Twenty-four years later the second son of this man at the 'windowv, then a youtli of twenty, travelled round the world--every mile of tlie journey on trains and slips of the systemn headed by bis father. Fred Shaughnessy alterwards went into the brokerage business and the local militia. In i916 things lad changed again even more swiftly than ever tley had in the ï-ost lieadlong days of tlie first great transcontinental, whose slips and trains were 110W canymig out soldiers, munitions, and war supplies instead of fetcbing in immnigrants. That battalion marching past the window would be on tlie water -within a week. Another was being organised at Montreal, the Irish-Canadian Rangers, wliose adjutant is tlie eider son of Lord Sliauglnessy. Several montîs befre that the 6oti liad gone across witli Captain Fred SIaugI- nessy at the lead of a company, second in command under hlm tlie husband of bis sister. Tliey were now- somewhere in France. Probabiy tlie President was thinkzing of these tlree 50",
         "Baron Shaughnessy as he heard the bugles. More than a year now through the C.P.R. he had been purchasing agent for the British War Office. Less than a month before he had made a speech in Montreal criticising the unorganised, senti- mental methods of recruiting new battalions before earlier units were up to full strength. He had intimated to the Government that he would make such a speech. Only two of the Cabinet had objected, the Ministers of Militia and of Public Works. The former at the same dinner openly vented his hostility, and in Parliament a week previous he had told the country that his work of organising the Canadian army had been equal to the task of building the C.P.R. He could think of no other comparison so obviously convincing. There were public men who in public endorsed Hughes and in private agreed with Shaughnessy. Patriotism is a many-headed thing. The man who waves a flag and thumps a drum gets a crowd. Three thousand men had already gone from the C.P.R. into the khaki camps, all of them on six months' full pay. \"Why not? \" asks the professional patriot. \"See what the country has done for the C.P.R.\" Not even Shaughnessy denies that. The country and the C.P.R. grew up together. Political critics have sometimes asked which was supposed to be the greater, the whole or the part. Does Canada control the rail- ways or do the railways own Canada? has been a monumental query. Canada owns one railway, the Intercolonial, half of another, the Grand Trunk Pacific, has guaranteed bonds for a third, the Canadian Northern, and years ago gave land grants to the C.P.R. enough to make it the greatest land corporation in the world. The total capitalisation of these four systems, if it were possible to appraise it, must come to something near a thousand million dollars. The present aggregate value no man is able to compute. The ultimate value of these roads is far in the future: depending upon the people taken into the country by the railways and the steain- ship. lines under their control; upon the lands made productive by immigrants; upon business fostered and",
         "Baron Shaughnessy to some extent created by the railways; upon the rail- way adverti*sing of Canada abroad; when not a mile, nor a car, nor a water-tank of any of these systems would be worth estixnating in dollars at any time in the future if the arniies and the fleets of nearly ail free peoples were not organised for the purpose of keeping the Prussian card index out of such places as Canada. Very likely Lord Shaughnessy realises that as well as any one. He is temperaunentaily and by descent an Irishman; as Irish without the poetry as Tom Moore who made a wayside station on the C.P.R. famous in verse. Without harping on railways for a theme he went from point to point as energetica]ly and concisely as a prairie train. He seemed to, gather momentum as he went.. Now and then as he swept into some peculiarly pictliresque phase of his subject his voice whistled as shxill as a piccolo. Personal to some extent the con- versation must be; but not for long. No matter how raptly Lord Shaughnessy loses himself in the subject, he has no inclination to.forget-hmself. Which causes one to reflect that lie was born an American. With Irish blood and American breeding, even the early stoicism of the organising C.P.R. failed to, repress in hlm the bubbling audacity of the primai ego. And -it must be remembered that few men living can look back upon so remarkable an evolution of a man and a system. One might illustrate by John D. Rockefeller and Carnegie, except that Shaughnessy is not a plutocrat and was only in a secondaiy sense a creator of the great railway system. Before hlm there -was Van Home. Before Van Home there was Strath- cona. Prior to these-the wilderness. Part of his tumnultuous flow of well-ordered talk that spring morning concerned his predecessor, for whom. he had always the profoundest admiration and whose name he pronounced musically \"Van'orne.\" The two mren difiered as radically as hydrogen and oxygen. The eclectic imagination of Van Home was necessary to so nebulous a project as the C.P.R. Shaughnessy, less* brilliant, less showy, perhaps less daring, manipulated 52",
         "Baron Shaughinessy the matter-of-fact details in those pioneer days wbile his chief sketched out the huge picture, wrestled with financial problems, and worked bis psychics upon governinents and politicians. . WhnShaughnessy arrived in Montreal as purchasing bought for Iess than the value of the C.P.R in 1898 when he became President. In an ahnost mediaeval city of priests and habitants, stone walls and churches, a mountain and a big river and a bank or two, he bought steel rails and tamarac ties, picks and shovels and dynamite, pork, beans, and \" blackstrap,\" overalls and shirts, crowbars and donkey engines, handcars, monkey- wrenches, oll-caxjs, plouglis, and scrapers, and whatever grading machinery there was in those days, minus our modemn coughing pioneer the steam shovel. Ifany man in America knew the rail-head value of such com- modities it was this man Shaugbnessy, the slin, swift- moving Irishman whose eyes were as keen as the hawk's. Caada was a crude land. The C.P.R. was a primeval i monster. This was to be the first direct ocean-to-ocean railway in the world to cross an entre continent. Like the con- quest of Canada it required imagination, and more. We shail neyer quite understand the peculiar psychic combination of that experimental epoch after Con- federation when certain men banded together to, produce unintentionaily the Pacific Scandai. With the practical wisdom of nowadays we are sometimes inclined to think that the junta of Scotchmen who projected the railway for Van Homne and Shaughnessy to build were flot always the most honourable of gentlemen. Democracy always reserves the riglit to, cail the C.P.R. a few savage naines. We forget that in the days when Edward Blake, Irishi as lie was, predicted, that sucli a bighway would neyer pay for its axie-grease, it would have been considered good management to retain the services of the devil himself if that could have built. the road. The building of the system evolved the mani of temperament, Thomas Shaughnessy. He would have.",
         "Baron Shaughn1essy been a.big man under any other circumstances. Had he been a mere understudy to Van Home be would have been too small to succeed that giant of construction. Had he been merely an Irishman he might have been dis- couragcd. When Van Homne left the presidency in 1898, there was considerable speculatkon as to the reason. The wonder stili exists after the man is dead. H1e wvas then in bis prime of activity, *fifty-five years old. According to bis own theorem no man cornes to the sul-conscious co-ordination of details necessary to control a vast system until he is sixty. H1e was five years under bis own estimate when he handed over the transcontinental which he had helped to create, just at the tirne ,,ïhen it had corne to be regarded as one of the world's greatest systems. In 1898 Canada had just begun to rediscover itself. In the five years immediately following that the C.P.R. carried in more people and'ported out more products than it had done in the thirteen years between the driving of the last spike and the retirement of Van Horne. In the decade after 1898 the C.P.R. becamne a world- girdling system, with ships on every sea, its literature displayed ini every country of Europe, and its stocks bought and sold under every flag. Canadians themselves have always looked upon the C.P.R. as a sort of super- system in relation to governments, parties, politics, and other business corporations. If a C.P.R. man of any prominence was sbifted or promoted the news becanie a national fact. If the corporation applied for an increase of its capital stock the fact was sniffed at by alarnnist inembers of Parliament and editors as something approxi- mating to, a national calamnity. \"'Cutting a melon \" became as apropos of the C.P.R. as \" axle-grease \" and '«\u003ctwo streaks of rust across the prairie \" had been in the days of Edward Blake. Lt was a saying of Van Horne that the greatest tbing he ever did for the C.P.R. was to put Shaugbnessy into it. Was that another of bis cryptic humours? Perhaps not. For a couple of years before bis resignation he had left the bu]k of bis work to his astute and untiring 54",
         "Baron Shaughinessy assistant. He had the notion that he was unwell. Fond as he was of saying that lie had neyer been tired because lie neyer worked, there were signs that the giant liad grown weary of one thing and had become a sort of eclectic. Van Horne with ail his tremendous creative energy was a superb dilettante. He had a finger in almost every pie. 11e bad reached the end of the pioneer con- struction stage, and on the operating end the road had already begum to pay dividends. He had probably corne to the end of lis purely rornantic tether. Merely to, operate a system which ini the main liad been created was flot primai enough for hini. He had dabbled much ini books and mucli more in art. H1e was coilecting pictures and curios, ransacking the Orient for treasures. 11e was himself painting. H1e had a desire to, live among objects and atmospheres of art. And for a while lie did; until he discovered that bis primai energies developed on the C.P.R. made him, hungry to, railroad Cuba after the Spanish-American War. Whatever the philosophy of Van Horne it was prob- ably flot equal to, the task of adniinisteiing the system which he liad done the major share to create. He liad shot bis boit in projecting the system. To carry it further, with ail its bewildering complications of freiglits and tariflis, steamship Uines, paiace liotels, irrigation adven- tures, land policies, immigration agencies, and concurrent wrestlings with both governments and Railway Com- mission, needed the hand of a man with a greater concen- tration of purpose and more patient with conflicting details. To manage the C.P.R. in competition with other transcontinental systems was no work for a man of Gargantuan hobbies. It was and is the task of a man witli a single tenacity of purpose, who, whatever bis private inclinations, neyer permits bis humours to enter mnto bis business. Siný:: Van Home retired the system. lias evolved tliousands of miles of new highway. It lias also evolved Thomas Shaugbnessy. That spring morning as the President heard the. bugles and drums of a restless Canada marcbing to war, lie talked freely about Canadian affairs. Eje spoke",
         "Baron Shaughnlessy with the diiect rapid-fire organisation of argument that marks the mani who is accustomed to simpfifying and foeussing a myriad details. He had mastered the C.P.R.: no man had ever done it so thoroughly. And ne spoke with an almost..evangelical sincerity. The war-he spoke of that frst; reiterating the views for which he had been. criticised and for wkicli he pre- dicted that Canada would yet decide that lie was riglit. He pointed out the need for a national register of men and resources in a time of war, a measure wbich lie said sliould have been tundertaken long before-although one does not recolleet that in the early days of the war lie ever said, so. But to him the war was a passing phase. Tremendous and testing as it raiglit be, he chose still to regard this country as a land of the future. Canada had not shot lier boit in one spasm, of glorified expansion since 1898. The problems created before and since that time had nlot gonie on the sheif. From, bis almost unbroken flow of ta]k that morning it would seem that lie hoped to take part in a stili greater movement of national co-ordination after the war. The necessity for consolidating aur resources, for developing our -G«wn raw material. for getting mo--ý and more men on to the land, for revising our systtm, of immi~atonfor a saner programme of railway building 'without paralleling existent Unes, for getting more of Grea~t Britain and less of continental Europe-bis views on some of 'these questions were already known ta tlie Government. H-e spoke of the Frenchi question, If any Nationalist concetvedthie idea from wliat lie liad said about organiscd recruiting that lie favoured the parochial let-alone palicy, they were sadly mistaken. What lie meant was that race elifferences sliould be obliterated in a tinae of national struggle; that if the Frenchi Canadians wislied ta get more riglits and freedom under the Goverument of Canada they should stimulate recruiting and be able ta say wlien the war was over that they had shown, their enthusiasm, for the Empire. To bis mind Frenchi Canada had greater riglits under the Britishi North America Act",
         "Baron Shaughnessy than it co'uld ever have under an independent Canada. To bis mind aiso, Home Ruler as lie is, Ireland needs no0 better measure of Home Rule than Quebec already lias under the Act of Confederation. Did lie, therefore, favour or expect in bis time, or in the days of any man living, an independent Canada? By no0 means. He looked forward to, a greater future for the greatest overseas dominion under the British flag than without it. He advocated some practical form of Imperial co-ordination by a joint commission; in matters of Imperial defence, in trade -ome form of mutual preference-and lastly in political administra- tion, wbicli to bis way of thinking liad better be left to corne as a tried resuit of co-operation along otlier lines. 0f course, there are those wlio allege tliat wlien a ma lias a baronage from the British~ Crown, what other pliilosopliy could lie profess than some attacliment to the Imperium? Let Iliat pass. Sliaugbnessy knows more about the raison d'être and tlie value of bis, titie than anybody else. And lie probably enjoys as mucli as Van horne could have done the paradox of an Irish Amnican, becoming a Cnadian peer. As to. th. business necessary to develop Canada among the nations wlien the war is over Lord Shaugli- nessy spoke briefly and freely. He believed that we shall have to revise our system of immigration. Instead of dragnetting Europe for people and testing their fitness tio be Canadian citizens after tliey arrive, there sliould be a siffting at the ports of emigration or at governinent depots established in Europe. He made it quite clear that the C.P.R. intends to pursue a land policy which wil make it easier for capital-less immigrants to settie and become producers. It was quite as clear that lie intended ýhe C.? R. to pursue its own policy in- this regard quite independent of what other transportation systems or tlie Govemnment itseif miglit do in the inatter. It was the talk of a many-phased man of affairs who bas corne to, the time of life wlien lie sees tbings in national perspective; a mnan always in earnest, forever",
         "Baron Shaughnessy ini touch with things as they are, neyer too big to observe the smallest detail, neyer too mucli of a political theorist to cease being a thinker of C.P.R., and neyer so, much of a C.P.R. man that lie sits back and makes light of national problems or of the men who are working tim out. The war was stili the first great problem. Hie had no need to say so. It was evident in aIl lie said. The bugles and the drums were banging below. lie listened. The drums petered off again. Irisbxnen have always been credited witli learing and seeing some things to v\u003chich many other people are blind and deaf. This mani, grandfather and organising man of affairs, centralising despot and clear-headed critic - how could lie that balmy spring morning of the open windows know that bis second son, Captain Fred Shaughnessy of the 6oth C.E.F., was dead. at the front? lie seemed to know notbing of that. The cable and the telegrapli had not yet spoken. The newspapers had as yet no headlines concerning that son's death. Those came two days later. Meanwhile it was courteously permitted, to the visitor to indicate when the interview sliould end. Lord Shaugbnessy genially shook hands-a warm, impulsive Irishi grip, and went back to bis conferences of the morning while the bugles blew.",
         "FRESIDENT FALCONER AT forty year of age Robert Alexander Falconer, D.D., becaxne Prsdent of a University which since the day of bis birth and before it had been headed by old men. Imagin9-King Lear and Horatio, Abrahamn and the younger Pitt, Sir Daniel Wilson and R. A. Falconer. Yet when Falconer was a post-graduate youth of twenty-five, Sir Daniel's fearsomely benign white wbiskers, snowy locks, and wintry cape- were the erudite symibol of intellectual achievement in Queen-s Park. In those days, when Sir William Dawson was head of McGiIl, it was taken as an axion' that to be caput of a college was to, be a great, and fa:7 as possible a venerable, scholar. Oh\u003e the prancing paradox of change 1 The older the world gels and the more wisdom a university accumu- lates, the youqnger the mani at ils head. Neyer had so, youthful a person as Robert Falconer been President of a great Canadian university. There miust, have been a pack of courage in this beardless educator who looked lilce a youth, when he consented to go up from the headship of the Presbyterian College li Halifax to manage a great imiversity fuIll of sage professors. \" Varsity \" was reeking with classic memories of Dr. Wilson; Professor laudon who succeeded him; Maurice I-utton, still the Principal of University College, who has inemories of to-morrow and is stili a mani of to-day; Paxton Young, the venerable matheinatician in the tower; and old Dr. McCaul, the first president of King's College. Dr. Falconer was no sage. His scholar- shlp was of the cold, exact type, souud as a good bell, incapable of exaggeration or of hot rhetoric. We do not forget that t:ere had been already a profound con.rast between Sir Daniel Wilson and President Loudon. Sir Daniel was a sort of aged Lear with 59",
         "President Falconer knowledge in place of misery. He was the sublimely picturesque whose two books, one on etbnology, the other on left-handedness, entitled hlmn to a status as a student of manldnd from the cave-men era down to bis own tinie. He spoke with a grand pageantic passion, read his marveilous lectures on history from. generation to generation of youtbs just to please hiniseif, and was in ail things mucli of a bgrd and a prophet. President Loudon was cold mathematics and science; uninspired, unpretentious, punctilious, as impatient with the head- long follies, of hot youth as Daniel Wilson had for the most part been blind to them. The régime of President Loudon, covering the period shortly after the great, fire of i890 until 1907, saw the genesis and evolution of the modem democratic uni- versity out of the old college on the campus sacred to its diligent dons and its serious-minded aduit students. That decade and a hall saw the rise of co-education and practical, science right tkrough the precaxious age of \"bloomers,» bicycles, and academic mining outfits, down to the tume when \" the sweet girl graduate with golden hair\"* at Convocation took her place alongside the masculine B.A. who took bis football as seriously as he imbibed Homer and Euclid. This inconsiderate deniocracy of learning had reached a clinax i 1907, when Dr. Falconer, the exegetist and principal from, Halifax, entered the Head Office of the University of Toronto. Since 1895 the University had gone through two revolutionz born of this restless democracy. The second vas terminated by a Commission wbich, nominally headed by Goldwin Smith, the dean of aIl coilegians in Canada, but in reality by Mr. J. W. Flavelle,business man, had. found it vise to c-oncede to the new protestantism a change of government. Dr. Falconer was thc' choice of that Commission. Hol vas selected in a business way by a body conducted on business principles. The affairs of the University, from, the paloeontological exhibits in the museuni to the latest dernonstration of modemn science in the laboratory, had been co-ordinated with cold, dispassionate care. 6o",
         "President Falconer The general defect in the University was, it seemed, nothing more than the lack of a business system and the failure to assimilate the hordes of youths viho came st.aling in from, towns, villages, and farms. New move- ments had been born, new tendencies were developing in a fast-moving age; and the University stili, clung to the King's College cap-and-gown ritual, when it needed more typewriters, more Iedgers, more waIl space, a central heating plant, a larger number of boilers, inills, machines, and electrical equipment-more factory co- ordination, more obviously frank correlation with the affairs of the great busy world outside, and a more discursive acquaintance with young democratic; humanity. At that time one newspaper owned by a graduate of the University had boldly nominated three or four young business organisera with covert B.A.' after their names as possible presidents. The Commission smiled at the audacity of the idea; and after cah-aly surveying the needs and the available mnen made up its mind to, do just what nobody expected it to do. There had been all sorts of hectic and shrewdly expectant ilimours. Would the new President be a scholar from Oxford or Edinburgh, or a co-ordinating intellectualist furnished with a business system from Chicago or Yale It 'was a momentous decision to, maice. For months the vexed affa.irs of this seat of Iearning had occupied column after column in the newspapers. So much was the choice of a new academic general manager a matter of popular curiosity that an excitable ne'ws-paper man intercepted the proofs of the Commission's report on their way for final revision and gave bis paper a \"scoop\" on the contents. The choice of a President was not of course t'fe only issue involved; but it was, the one item that epitomised all the others. And when the nanie of the new President was at last announced, the public treated itself to a sigh of romantic disappointnient. The new head of the University was to corne from no renowned seat of learning in either the old wor]d or the new. -ne was to have no retinue of titles after his",
         "President Falconer name. He was to be the author of no great book, and the disôoverer of no scientific principle. He was flot even to be a mani weil known to any but a few collegians outside his own* Province where lie had tauglit and rnanaged a sectarian university, and the littie Province of Prince Edward Island where he was born. He was to be a Presbyterian preacher, a professor of exegetics, and a classicist of some reputation. It was very absurd. Alunini ail over Canada hummed and hawed over this arbitrary choice of a cold calculat- ing Commission, and said there was either great method or'mucli madness ini it. The tzovus homo from Halifax was flot even fairly forty years of age. And there was ruinour that even lie had hesitated a long while before deciding to accept. The Commnission, with haif the worid of vise men from which to, choose, with a great reorganis- ing university to offer the new President, with lixnitless opportuni:ty, and a. sa1ary at least equal to that of the Canadian Prime M4iniister, had doubts for some tume whether Robert A. Falconer, D.D., from Halifax would not decide to cheat opportuuity by remaining in tte head office of bis Preshyterian University. Hesitation was natural Had R. A. Falcorer regarded this cail to, duty tbxough the spectacles of twenty years ago, he must have refused to accept. But conditions had changed. R. A. Falconer was the resuit. He was a very brief while at bis new post befre he demonstrated that he stood as solid ini bis boots as though lie had been in thema a lifetime. To the critical gaze of elderly professors, and the yet more nicroscopic scrutiny of skylarking students, he seemed equally impassive. That somewhat theological gravity of bis helped hlm here. Falconer was neyer an obvious emotioniser. He carried no heavy port of encyclopoedic wisdom. He had no visible anxiety to, impress any one with aught but his, holdfast desire and intention to be colour- lessly just to every one, froni the learned Principal ol University College down to the stoker in the boiler- room. To hira the caretaker's progr-amme was as mucli a department of university conduct, as the chair of 62",
         "President Falconer Oriental languages. There ivas a place for ail. It was the first duty of -the new President to allocate, to cognise, to keep godly counsel with hin'self when in any manner of doubt, and presently to catechise sorne one in great simplicity to ftnd out. Patience, unswerva2ble impartiality, judiciai, acumen, tireless study of details and the graduai Co-ordination of parts-Falconer had, or achieved, them aIl. The young theologian of forty had a reorganising task that rnight have fascinated any adventurous soul, or driven hlm to buy a ticket back to whence he came. He was expected to reform; therefore reforrn was possible. No other work like this would ever corne across bis path. It was an honourable difficulty. Yet, though the public nxight consider bis youth, he was expected to do the work of a grown maxi. Outwardly the new President seldorn irnpressed any one as being confronted by any great predicament. That colly dispassionate face told no taies. Not given to habituai smiles--usually a truffe Calvinistic and dour ini expression-he was not taken too seriously when he failed to be merry. And it was a very littie while it scered until he found other work to do besides managing a unîversity from a head office. Faiconer has one genial besetrnent. It is-public speech. He has talked more in public than any other University President we ever had i Canada, except two-the late Pricipal Grant of Queen's and Sir William Peterson of McGill. Like Grant, he, too, is a preacher; therefore, talk cornes with easy grace. But with what a difference 1 Grant wvas a forensic who rnade a hobby of politics and was a thorn in the side of mis- government. Faiconer is a universaiist wvho is apparently as much obsessed by the Y.M.C.A. movernent as by the exigencies of politics. Principal Peterson is a pro- pagandist who openly carrnes the burden of the Emnpire Falconer believes i the Empire, but you neyer catch bim carried, off bis feet by any gust of ernotion concern- ing the old flag. He is as likely to be moved by the consideration of -the treble clef and the utility of garbage",
         "President Falconer destructors as by the need for reorganising the Imperial Parliainent. He always appears dispassionate. To some he is cold. 'Y'uth does- fot at fiist warm to Falconer, who neyer bubbles or sparkles or loses hirnself in hurricanes. There is no obvious propellant force about this inan to over- awe the plebs. It is known to the students that the President, confronted wvith any entanglement-such as overlapping of departmènts or Hallowe'en eruptions- will cail councils, cross-examine, and probe, foldir.g his amias in grave senatorial scrutiny until the via media be found, or the blame allocated, and the penalty adjusted. But when that cornes, it is in no manner through the personal force of the mnan, but by means of hlmn as the full-armed delegate and enibodiment of the University. One might say that Falconer is an ideal clearing- house for ail college activities. He studies bis University as though it were a railway. It costs so niuch, earns se much, loses somiuch, needs froni the Government so much-annuaily and Per capita. One department loses while another gains. There are signs of the times; the President carcfuily connotes them. Classics-tottering to the polite museum; modems-no longer a direct rival to mathemnatics. Natuzai science invaded by theI physics building, the mining and engineering depart- ments, the practik il men with the tripod or the assay- ing outfft, the bridge builder and the architect. Yes, the tities change. Gone is the mediamval port that went with the cloistered precinct and thle high-barred gate. We have the keen-eyed youth who sketches bis career the very day he registers, and becomes a double entry in the University ledger and a factor of cost and over- head charges. The modem President must cognise these economic factors. But the Falconer type of President is not, therefore, a machine, something between a dynamometer and a board bil. He is a discursive, investigating man, whose habituai bent of mind maust be scientific in order to get the best net mean average of resuits from bis University. No longer is it a time for big moments and inspirational 64",
         "President Falconer episodes. It is an age of balance, check, and adminis- tration. Methods must be compared. One college may run to this, another to, tliat; but ail mnust. conforrn as- far as posbible to, the spirit of the age. The bailiwick of President Falconer maust not be permitted to, go to, excess in any one direction. The Oxford idea, party politics, athîetics, militarism, the ferninist movement, piactical science-even formai religion-niay be over- emphasised to the detriment of the ail-round citizen of culture, On these Falconer bas bis careful eye. Besides the common every-day world is much to be considered. The man who was once a preacher neyer forgets that. Down town and out ini the smail country village there aie problems; men working and think- ing\"-thousands of themn the product of universities such as his. So the President is seen aàs much as possible down. town. Manufacturers, art-workers, music-lovers, news- paper mnen, the Board of Trade, the Canadian clubs, the social settiement workers, the peace movement or the war party movement-any or ail of these may require an address frorn the President. He is usually ready, at a given tiine of notice. And he seidoin speak-s without saying somnetbing careftuy worth while. Neither does he return to the University office with- out having Iearned something; it xnay be a very comamon, practicai tbing, but it is useful. To Faiconer ai life is useful that cornes to bis miii; and the miii is a big one. Hie is yet a young man. Some day he may break through some of bis customary checks and balances and im- petuously seize some one big thing, forgetting both hixuseif and the University. What might it be? The Oxford Movement or the valueof the coilege-trained arcbitect; the Round Table or the function of the university in business; the possi- bulities of paciflcism or the importance of foresta±ion; the inteilectual, man's independenoe, of knighthoods, or the need for developing our water-powers; the menace of bi-lingualisrn or the power of the laboratory man in the modemn factory?",
         ".President Falconer Not even President Falconer know.,. And flot even Falconer's closest fiiend on the faculty-if there be sucli a nan.-wil[ ever know that lie is disturbed by the difficulty of finding out. We have flot, many such poiseful men li publi*c places. And we have no eniinent academic who.seenis to be so nearly devoid of any one consurnlng passion except for keeping a perfect equilibrium li the grand rnarch of men and events.",
         "SIR WILLIAM MACKENZIE BUT for the comparative accident of a thousand years we migbt have called this man William the Conqueror. No Canadian of oui times has succeeded in conquering so comýpletely not only a tmra nova, but corporations, :financiers, municipalities, governiments, and politicians. We shall neyer be nearly the same people again since Sir William Mackenzie invaded us with bis transcon- tinental and exploitatious programme-lie and bis herculean partner, Sir Donald Mann, whose burly shadow must always be imagined somewhere in any life picture of Mackenzie. But a year or so ago this mani with the eagle visage and the rnthless manner was giving Canada a great deal more concern than William of Germany. In fact, no small degree of our apparent indifference to the German Kaiser mnay be attributed to the fact that we had a Kaiser of oui own, whose naine also was William. On a ivinter evening in 1915 Sir William Mackenzie went to an art club inoToronto to behold a set of moving pictures. It was the flrst film draina lie had ever seen. The hinnfgures on the screen enacted thie struggle for existence in the most primitive forni remaining on the continent of North America. They drove frantic; dogs drawing walrus-laden sleds; sat by the hour over loue botes in the ice waiting for seals to corne up to the spear; bult cunningly bouses of snow; rolled, theinselves to sleep ini deerskin bags, and wheua they got up gnawed raw meat and went on long journeys. AU these things the head of the greatest railway-buil'ding organisation in the world watclied with uncominonly sympatlietic: interest and an occasional enormous yawn. Many of the art-workers present supposed that Sir William Mackenzie was getting a glimpse of something absolutely new. Certainly no railway of bis was yet 67",
         "Sir William Mackenzie 'within hundreds of miles of those igloos. There neyer could be a water-tank i any of those Eskimo villages. No Eskimo freiglit ever could corne over a Mackenzie road. What was he doing there? Having corne, wliy did lie somnetimes yawn as though he had seen it ail before ? The simple reason was-Sir William Mackenzie owned the Eskimos in those pictures. The film was bis. The machine that took it was bis also. The boat that carried the film and the, cameras and a whole nortbland ex- peditionary outflt for a crew lasting nearly two years was- bis likewise. In bis office he had a large book of blueprints, maps, pliotograplis, geological surveys, and hydrographic reports containing information about Eskimo-land that no Eskimo had ever dreamed to exist even in its most legendary form. As a result of the expedition a group of new islancis liad been reclaimed from the oblivion of centurie-, and added to the map of Canada. And while the explorer carried the gospel of Mackenzie axnong the Eskimos, the man who owned the outflt *went on with bis programme of conquering the rest of Canada as thougi lie knew flot the difference between an Eskimo and a king of the cannibal islands. That film was a very good illustration of what Sir William Mackenzie bas been doing in Canada for the past two decades. Witliout intending to, be at all im- polite or unpatriotic, lie lias been regarding the in- habitants of this country as more or less cultivated Eskimos. in our struggle for existence we needed him and bis railways-now 10,000 miles in operation-the C.N.R., the C.N.R.Q., the T.S.R., the W.S.R., the E.D.C., the T. and Y.R.R., tlie C.N.R.S., the S.,h. and F.Co., the C.N.R.L., and the hlf-dozen other utilities in Canada of which lie is either liead or director. These abbreviated syinbols do not include the liglit, lieat, water, power, and traction comipanies in Mexico, Sao Paulo, and Rio de Janeiro in wicli lie liolds fabulous amounts of stock. They have nothing to do witli the ring of similar enterprises lieaded and conducted by bis inveterate partner Sir Do'rald Mann. 68",
         ",.~.r'",
         "Sir William Mackenzie So mucli self-made power, ail the visible work of twerity years, lias neyer, so far as we know, been in the hands of any other Canadian. Up tilt 1895 William Mackenzie was a contractor. When he was a young school teacher down around Kirkfield ini eastern Ontario, where he was born, the Grand Trunk was the only rail- way in Canada. The Grand Trunk was operated from London. lie was a youth of eighteen at Confederation, when lie had no idea that in less than forty years lie would have great need of ail those provincial govern- ments and the federal governient created by the British North Arnerica Act. le was a contractor building branch lines of railway when the Pacifie Scandai ousted the Macdonald governient in 1873. is politics were Conservative. Let us ail be thankful that lie neyer took bis politics too seriously. Sir William Mackenzie as Premier of Canada would, have meant-at Ieast the abolition of the cabinet systemr, if flot of Parliaxnent. He was a man-driving boss of labouring gangs wlien the C.P.R. again got into Canadian politics; and before the main line of that price of Confederation was finished, Mackenzie had. individual contracts to, bis credit and a partnership with D. D. Mann wbich began i 1884, one year before the last spike of the main line was driven by Sir Donald Smith at Craigeilacbie, B.C. When that epic was over the new firm M. \u0026 M. took contracts for building several of thie branch lines nortli and soutli that tentacled away froni the grand short cut across the prairie into regions of fabulons and as yet undiscovered wealth. The first great corporation that made early Canada a land of fur-traders had given place to the second great corporation that was to inake it a land of great railways. Rivers and York boats and trail-carts were being superseded by freight trains and passenger coaches. Donald A. Smith, head of the H-udson's Bay Company, had become financial head of the C.P.R., and was being elbowed off the stage by the titanic figure of Van Homne. When Van Home, head of the C.P.R., awarded con- tracts to Willam Mackenzie and bis partner Donald",
         "Sir William Mackenzie D. Mann for sidelines ramifying into the furpost settie- rnents north and south, even he with ail bis prescience did flot foresee that before he lost interest in the C.P.R. there would be a railway builder in Canada who, would do things neyer dreamed of in bis philosophy. Neither for that matter did William Mackenzie, who was neyer a visionary or a very reakbeprophet. It is very pleasant romantic literature to read that Mackenzie and Mann dreamed an eaxly dxeam about the vast country north of the C.P.R., the great Sas- katchewan vailey. No doubt both of these shrewd slingers of railway ties and miles of steel realised that between Winnipeg and Edmnonton for nearly a thousand miles in one direction there - \"s a land which the C.P.R. might wait many years before developing. But it was long after the C.P.R. had quit building in that part of the world, and just as Canada was beginning to open up a new era ini immigration and land settie- ment, when -Mackenzie and Mann took over a ramn- shackle bit of railway running from the C.P.R. into the Dauphin country, and with running rights over part of the C.P.R. sat down to find themselves, in actual coiitrol of a diminutive railway that began and ended nowhere. Less than Lwenty years after that date, a special traïai -which, before the end of the journey became sixteen coaches-steamed out of Quebec City on its way west- ward. After more than a week of travelling the pàrty of railwaymen, parlianientarians, and newspapermen found themselves in Port Mann on the Pacifiei and steaxning down to Vancouver. The head of that party was Sir William Mackenzie. The train in which those 200 men travelled had covered more than 3000 miles, ev'ery mile of it Canadian Northern transcontinental main line that grew out of the littie spur line which in 1896 two contractors had made the .nucleus of a great system. without knowing it. To any but an average Canadian cynic this brief contrast makes the outlines of an epical romance. The average British money-lender whose millions have been 70",
         "Sir William Mackenzie invested in this strange conquest of a new land is quite willing to believe that the men who, achieved it are the greatest railway builders the world ever knew; and that the hundreds of millions spent on this man-made system are safeguarded by productive territory contiguous to the road and by bonds bearing the guarantee of both provincial and federal governments. The ordinary push- and-go American, accustomed to the creat ion of colossal systems within one man's lifetime, recognises that even under these conditions the task of linking up the scattered sections of such a railway from Quebec to Vancouver is a programme of impersonal ambition which neyer could have been carried out if the creators of it had flot some- timts treated most Canadians as though they were plain Eskimos. In 1892 William Mackenzie became the head oz' bis fist corporation, the Torontc Street Railway. That was enough to tie hixu for post-office purposes to Toronto, and to make hixn acquainted with bankers in that city. Otherwise the head offices of the greatest man-made railway system, iii the world mighit have been in either Montreal or Winnipeg. In 1895 he first became an operator of a small steam railway; the year before Wilfrid Laurier became Premier of Canada. There was a Colossus in Toronto and a Parsifai at Ottawa. Both stood on the verge of an Etizabethan era in Canada. In William Shakespeare's day the new world was the whole of North America with a million or so of Indians and Eskimos waiting for the white man who, would cross the ocean in a tub and begin to exploit them. In the renascent period headed by William Mackenzie and Laurier the new world, was a very large part of haif the sanie continent, much of it inhabited by redskins, half-breeds, and furposts white folk, ail waiting for railways and more people. By i901 Mackenzie had begun to give signs of be- coming one of the greatest borrowers in the world. That spur hine to Dauphin was growing like Jonah's gourd.' It was becoming a small octopus everlastingly hungry. Bankers wrote Canadian Northern in their ledgers; 7:1",
         "Sir William Mackenzie C.N.R. ovexfdrafts- Mackenzie-wants more money; secuity-C.N.R.; whatever that miglit be or become, heaven only knew, except that Mackenzie was the fixst mnan, who ever bludgeoned bis way into a head banker's office and without a ilote of apology proceeded to make the banker believe that to refuse hlm, money was to miss \"the tide in the affairs of men that taken at the flood leads on to, fortune.\" It is stili told with much. emphatic merriment by a ban.ker who years ago was a clerk at the head office of bis bank in Toronto, how that Mackenzie was informed once upon a tinr7 that bis affairs at the bank were in a state of undue congestion, and that-pf! alinost before the telephone receiver was cold the head of this nebulous enigma known ast the C.N.R. was in the bauker's office demanding to have access to the books, with a body- guard of clerks, pens over their ears, to find out what on earth lie wanted. Every year added a few hundred miles to the swagger- ing audacity of the curious corporation that was now a conibination of C.N.R., Mackenzie \u0026 Mann, Ltd., and plain Mackenzie. Bank overdrafts were gobbled Up. The terrible infant was hungrier than ever. What wonder if somne banker, seeing the monogram MM for Mackenzie and Mann, said intuitively, \" Oh yes-More Money.\" What security? Here came in the Mackeýnzie genius -plus that of Manin. Obviously the more money this ramrpageous new railway got the more it would need. So long as there was room for tamarac ties and steel. rails to, reacli out behind the steam, shovels and the navvy gangs into the comparatively unknown, there was no stopping it. Hudson and Columubus neyer quit while seas remained. Here was a sea of land-up the Saskatchewan valley. }{ere were settiers needing rail- ways. The pace became frantic. A few years after it began, the average of building for that period was coin- puted at a mnile a day. At the climax it becarne miles a day. A mile of railway costs anywhere froin $io,ooo to $35,ooo. A year's building of the C.N.R. ran. into 72",
         "Sir William Mackenzie illions-not to, be earned for long enough, even though the road ran through higbly productive areas. More and yet more mouey mwust be got. When banks gave out the money lord3î of Europe must be persuaded to disgorge. So began Mackenzie's crusades to, England. But the plain proposition of the insatiable railway- builder was the last step in a series. The MM genius had made it so. Getting London millions for a Canadian railway into a terra Ïncognita must flnot be merely a magnifled overdraft at a banlc. Mackenzie must have soniething tangible to, seil. So he hLad. Bonds; bonds of the C.N.R.; geod, healthy, optirnistic bonds, as fine as ever were made. Otherwise how could so impatient, so, arrogant a man as Mackenzie spend bis time wheedling ducats out of an opulent money-lender? No, the money- bags man mnust grab at these bonds as thougli they were endorsed by the Bank of iEngland. And he did. For they were guaranteed every one of thein by either the federal governinent of Canada or a provincial governinent. Government-guaranteed bondsý; simple, easy--tre- mendous! But getting those guarantees was not so simple. This suggests a cycle of activities which it would need the pen of a Hugo to ravel out; how by making bis lines serve productive areas the wizard wanting to seil C.N.R. bonds could prove to any govemment, any Cabinet minister, any politician, any senator or group, of such, that the road, was becoxning a national or provincial asset, to what extent higher matbematics could flot compute. This was not always done by writing nice letters to a Premier, or by long-distance telephone conversations. It .required-knowledge of parliarnents. William Mackenzie bas made use of ail gr,-%enents, oppositions, and municipalities. The art of government he bas neyer studied. He bas governed. Politics he may neyer have understood. Re bas by turn., swept political, figures out of bis path and. kept parliaments and cabinets dancing to bis tune. This and thus of the greatest railway story in the world bas been told in newspaper columns for years.",
         "Suir William Mackenzie The local editor told bis 465 subseribers wvhat the con- struction gang did yesterday in the coulée just outside the tbwn. The mayor of Outpost welcomes the C.N.R. delegation. The Board of Trade ini Wayback oiganises a banquet-speeches tiil midnight and officiai train out next momning. Large delegation of prominent citizens in a new western city takes a gratis entourage down to, Winnipeg, occasion of the terminal inauguration; free buffet, sleeping cars de luxe in a prairie wilderness- flamboyant speeches tiil long past midnight belauding Mackenzie and Mann, till they discover that the President has ordered bis private car switched at Tanktown and is there srïoozing while the delegation goes riproaring on its way. Down along the Atlantic the directors of an old road are suddenly flung into a furore of silk bats and top- coats. President Mackenzie of the C.N.R. lias arrived in bis private car over the Intercolonial; wants to take a trial run over the road to see if it is good enougli to buy and make over, symptoms of the doomsday or the raillennium. In Toronto the Board of Trade engineer a banquet at the chief hotel, tribute to Mackenzie and Mann the marvellous Siamese twins of railroading, who have been benevolent enougli to establish head offices in their town financially dominated by the Bank of Commerce; speeches grandiloquent - when Mackenzie muxnbles something or nothiiig and sits down. In Montreal five years ago a grand turnout of officiais and leading citizens to, a dinner at the Windsor; occasion, first docking of the Royal Edward in from Bristol-since gone to the bottorn at the Dardanelles. In the saine ci:ty a year or so later excitedi conclaves of Board of Control and Councit, orating in Frenchi over the intention of the C.N.R. to shift its station from down the river behind the city to the wbariage front-by tunnelling two miles through the solid rock on whose lordly summait Jacques Cartier stood three centuries earlier and ca]led the scene Mount 'loyal. C.P.R. shares are held ail over the civilised world.",
         "Sir WlimMackenzie Grand Trunk Pacific was a creation of a government allied to a corporation. The C.N.R. is the creatior. of two men-at the head of a corps of experts, including cabinets, premiers, members of Parliaments. Now and then soine cormmunist rises in the House to ask about the common stock; or some syndicalising member clamours for government ownership, of the system. Sir William Mackenzie postpones the one and smiles over the other. Hie has not driven the last of bis last spikes as yet. By what sounding seaboard wiIi that be? The Bouse of Commons echoes-when and where? The opposition of to-day crusading in caucus against the C.N.R. corporationists, may be the. government of to-mourow-pledged, by governinent action to support the system. There is ro escape--.except by governnient ownersbip. Sir William Mackenzie is the psyèhic Iink between al governments, municipalities, and plain peoples. He is the new thouglit applied to public utilities, a cross between the muan with a club and the hypnotist whose weapon is auto-suggestion. He is incalculable, baffling, uncorralable. If znuckraking lit crature were i vogue in Canada lie would be deifled as the Éreat optimistic octopus. But the niuckraker neyer coiild prove that such an octopus was not so!nehow more benevolent than predatory. Mackenzie nayer plunders a treasury; neyer loots a public domain. When lie grabs inost lie is most intent on national development. Hie is no sentimentalist to whom the flag is the eternal symbol of an opportunity. He-never makes speeches--except to state that lie neyer was a speaker; neyer signs articles written by a secre- tary pointing out what is the need of the people and the duty of the hour; seldom says anything to, an inter- viewer that is not alinost as conimonplace as Joffre mumbling to thie press about \u003c'saving the country.\" There is no danger that Sir William wil ever blab bis secrets. le knows tliat people and editors and parlia- mentaries wil ta]k about him; and lie lets tliem ta]k. Obviously E£r William Mackenzie is not a coromon, financier. In Wall Street lie would be a mediocrity-",
         "Sir William Mackenzie perhaps. Wall Street is too mucli mere algebra for him. Mere vulgar wealth bas neyer been bis ambition. He is enormotisly wealthy, and is normaily in the position of the impecunious PIutocrat, so bard up that lie must have more millions riglit away or cease doing something that the country needs. \" The best way to conserve national resoutces,\" he said a few years ago wben the Conservation Commission wvas fonned, \"is to develop them.\" He bas neyer denied that lie is a prince of developers. Gossip every now and then fabricates some yarn about an offer made to Mackenzie to buy the CN .ifany body of experts could be found to appralse it. W1Lýn Sir Wlflianm agrees with Sir Donald Mann and bis associates to, seil the C.N.R., let us ail look for the illennial dawn. Mackenzie and Mann witbout the C.N.R. would be just plain orphans. What is mere money to thls, man whose money is always moving faster than any of bis express trains? Wbat use would he ever be to hiinseif as a retired gentle- man? Imagine hlm sitting in a library, dressing-gow.n- and slippers, while other men build the railways; bis favourite volume, say, Sir John Lubbock's Pleasures ôf Life. Impossible. H1e lives in a castie on a biff not bult by himself. He lias music ln the home wbich lie seldom understands. He sometimes goes to concerts-to yawn or use bis opera-glasses; to plays, when lie yawns again and sometimes goes to sleep. Now and then a book agent nabs hlm at breakfast and rides down town in bis motor-I car to seil hlm a set of editiors de luxe v'bich hae neyer bas time even to open. Every littie while some solicitous person struggles into Mackenzie's office to get a few thousands for some cbarity or public work. Once upon ai time lie was made an honora-y colonel, but of what regiment even some of bis friends do not feel sure. H1e lias become acquainted with aristocracy ln England andp one of his daugliters is mariled to a Frenchi Count. H1e sometimes entertains the Duke of Connauglit. In i9î5, for the first time ini bis life he was snapshottci 76",
         "Sir William Mackenzie in golfing clothes carrying bis sticks on the field-and tbey seemed like deadly weapons. No one ever heard of him going away for bis health. IHe has n time to be luywell. None of these mild amer±ities of li1e have ever charmed Sir William. No man bas ever been able successfulfly to, flatter him-with impunity. There are days when he beams wiith the mellow glow of October sunlight. In the afternoon of the same day lie may be developing a cycone ini bis office, or snarling to, an interviewer bis opinons about the institution known as the public. Mackenzie's domination of other men whom he employs or takes as bis associates is almost feudally personal. His whim or bis nod may be like the ad -nutem of Coesar. What lie wants may seem to be alinost suicidalty absurd. No mattei; Sir William wants it and it must be grt-imnedtately. Soine day lie will explain --or somebody else on bis behaif. For the present- get it. If it is a few extra miles an hour on atrial run with the president's car, the engine may burst and the stokers drop dead, but the extra must be got. If it is a fly that bothers the president in bis private car the fly must be cauglit. Wlien he goes away fcr a season there is a con- glomerate sigh of relief in the offices. When he cornes back there is a gingering up and a tbrill. To-day the sky may be cloudy in the psycbic selieme of Sir William Mackenzie. To-morrow sornetbing may be in the news- papers that explains why the b;-g chief had such a bad quarter of an hour. And wbile the critics are propliesying that some day soon lie wili corne to the end of bis rope- lie liooks up a fresli link in bis transcontinental system and lias a conlab with another premier.",
         ". 1",
         "SIR CLIFFORD SIFTON A PR.A=CTAL politician and an abstract thinker do not, as a rule, wear the saine pair of boots.. Perhaps it may be forgotten now and then that Sir Clifford Sifton was ever a politician. Every land is entitled to a public conundrum. Sifton is somewhat the Sphinx of Canada. He is a man whose value will neyer be quite adjudicated in bis own tixne. Yet he lias years enougli left-he is stild only fifty-five -to construct out of bis own knowledge and bis ex- peuience something monumental; sometbing that no other Canadian is qualified to create. For the past five or six years he lias been Chairman of the Royal Canadian Conservation Commission. So far as it is known the duties of th-at Commission are to see that our timber, minerais, water-powers, fisheries, agricultural areas, industrial possibilities, and ail those other tangible resources that make a country potential, do flot go to waste either by squandering or by neglect to develop and to utilise. The mran who heads such a commission has a place in the country second only to, the Premier. Govern- ments rnay corne and go, administrations change their programmes, and parties their tactics; this commission and the railway commission are axnong the permanencies -umpolitical and, therefore, national. We know very littie of this, commission\u003es work. Now and then some water-power is saved; Chicago is stopped from draiinrr Lake Superior into the Mississippi; forestation is rnapped ont; arid areas are irrigated;- fish hatcheuies are estab- lished, and fishless lakes made populous; forest fires are fended off; floods are abated; waste lands are re- claimed; goverrment lands are roaded, railroaded, and humesteaded; and the imagination naturally rus riot over the vast potentialities of a new country to, observe",
         "Sir Clifford Sifton the sweeping scope of a commission which never can do haif it conceives, because provincial goveruments, municipalities, corporations, and big individuals often mortgage the future for the sake of the present, paying very littie heed to the lessons of the past. Yet the average Canadian-as well as the writer of biographical sketches-if asked casually who is the chairinan of that thrift-inculcatingbody would hesitate to answer. We are becoming experts in Canada at creating commissions. As a raie, after we get over the excitement of creating them, everybody but politicians and editors forgets what an average commission is for and who are its personnel. Newspaper history, which, makes most of nmen's reputations even after they are dead, will not rec'ord that Sir Clifford Siftou was Chair- mani of the Conservation Commission. Sifton will be remexnbered as the frrst Minister of the Interior we ever had whosýe naine anybody but the archivist could remember. lIn fact, we were much like the over-healthy person, unconsclous that we had an interior, until Clifford Sifton took that portfolio. The portfolio lasted nine years under his name, from 1r896 till :1905. It was afterwards taken ový.er by a Westerner,. who though a more picturesque character than Mr. Sifton, did nothing to perpetuate any spec- tacular memories of the period, except to carry out the romantic propaganda first mapped out by his pre- decessor. Since the change of goverment two, or tbree men have had the portfolio; precisely who seems to, be of very littie national significance. No one can ever have that vitalising department in oui affairs who will ever be able to, do what Sifton did to, make it famous in bistory. He was the privileged pathfmnder, discoverer, and adventurer. Ul the others before and since aie, in a sense, bis understudies, imnitators, or counterfoils. This mani seerned to corne forth out of the West, without any of the essential character of the Westerner. He was a native of Middlesex, Ontario, a product of colleges, and Osgoode Hall, a brilliant scholai, a master of law, a mani wlth alinost certain prospects of a judge-",
         "Sir Clifford Sifton slip if lie had remained li the East. He went to Manitoba to practise law. He did it successfully. He became City Solicitor of :Brandon, which li itself was no very brain-taing responsibility. In those days, Brandon was as far off the eastern map as Edmnonton was twenty years later. There was room li that elevator town for a maxi to, breathe; roomn on the prairies that swept li about the outlying shacks and the corner hotel for a man of out- door temperainent to exijoy 111e at first hand without considerlng the document knowxi as Who's Who. Nobody was who i those early days of the West. Social affairs were li a very embryonic state. But if any visitor to, Brandon left the place wittiout knowing that Sifton lived there\u003e lie must have been a poor student of towxis. He was the man who, ail but gave the wheat town a local habitation anid a naine. The elevators of Brandon were like slips on the sea. The personality of the chief citizen of Brandon was a beacon liglit. What Nicholas Flood Davin was to early Regina, Frank Oliver to Edmonton, and Donald A. Smxith to Winniipeg, Clifford Sifton was to Brandon. Any other Manitoba town miglit have suited hlm. as weil. Brandon was as good a place as any to begin a career which depended somewhat upon law, mucli upon pâlitics, and very remarkably upon character, which li the West had a habit of sticking out as proniinently as an elevator on the skyline. Politics rather than law was the chief intellectual piirsuit of Brandon li the early days of Sifton. Oîxtside of Manitoba in those days th-2re were no politics in the 'West. Mr. Sifton sat for Brandon in the Manitoba Legislature li the fine oid truculent days of Thomas Greenway and «:fzghting \" Joe Martini whom lie succeeded as Attorney- General under Greexiway. Most of the politics of Manitoba li those days grew out of the school question; and it was the school question that found its most distlnguished belilgerent i Clifford Sifton--even agalnst the policy of the Liberal Government. Clifford Siftonwas always rather bigger thaxi lis party, and even -when lie flxst carne ixito national promiinence as",
         "Sir Clifford Sifton a member of the Laurier Cabinet of first-rankers; inii 896, he was secretly regarded by those who knew hlm best as potentially the ablest man ini the Ministry. He was Minister of the Interior for the most spectacular decade of our history. He had the portfolio that meant most to the progress of the country. He had prepared for it Ly ability, experience, and hard work. In :r896 Mr. Sifton knew the Wesf better than most of the men who had lived there twice as long. He could co-ordinate the conditions and needs of the West. He foresaw the swift moving-picture draina that was to enact itself on those vast unoccupied prairies. He was wifling to beconie, for a while, the chief actor ini it. He knew that aboVe ail things the West needed people. Wealth was there to be produced. Producers must be got. Railways mnust foilow, or if need be go ahead of the producers. Governinent land must be homesteaded. Europe and parts of the United States had a glut of under -producing people. Canada had a population hunger. To get the landless men on to the manless land becarne, in simple outline, the great agenda of Clifford Sifton. Ail other departinents of administration necessarily deferred to this - the business of peopling Western Canada. Anybody who happened to live ini the far West, as the writer was privileged to do during the yeaxs of the Sifton régime, wiil recail what a picture that made anywhere froin Winnipeg to the feet of the nor'-western foot-his near the headwaters of the Saskatchewan. At Edmonton the spectacle reached one of its cliniaxes. I{ere among the picturesque and lazy half-breeds on their cayuses and the indolent, marvelling red men ini their Iodges, camne hôrdes of frowsy, skin-.clad folk gabbllng a strange language, fragrant of dirty Europe; frugal i buying oxen, horses, and waggons- carving black bologna and rye bread with huge clasp-nive, trailing away over the blils where they stuck up sod-roofed log shacks and began to rip up the unravished prairie for crop. '\u003cSifton's sheepsIdns » the Conservative critics called theni. They with the Doukhobors, the Mennonites, the",
         "Sir Clifford Sifton Icelanders, the Germans, and the celebrated \"Barr Colony,\" l were the Western problem, of the turn of two centuries in Canada. There seemed no end to the pro- cession of these Galicians; sprngýy by spring and on into the summer and the fail came the squidgy--eyed caravans of these fecundating folk, who wore \"skin side out and woolly sîde in,\" who were to leamn the English language and buy red niachinery, to buckle on manhood suffrage and to entertain the whisky-dispensing prairie politician, to go to the poils and to prove themselves citizens along with the riversîde half-breeds. The -mask-faced man in the Minister of Interior's office at Ottawa knew the value of these people. He was the first Minister to dragnet Soùth Europe for immigrants and deliberately to alter the character of our Western civilisation. It was in his adiitration that the great gates of the West creaked open to let in the outside world, that two new transcon- tinental railways were conceived to, carry in the people and let out the products. On this twin policy rested the welfare of the Laurier régime. Without a courageous innovator as Mirilter of Intefior, no such op5us could have been carried out. And Cliflord Sifton neyer lacked courage. In fact he had need of it for more than the work of bis department. Such a wholesale injection of languages, costumes, and customs into, our jealously guarded preserve sacred to, the Maple Leaf was an easy matter to criticise. Con- servatives lu the East '\u003cviewed with alarm» the Europeanising of the prairies and the growth of ghettoes, and bananeries lu our big cities. Vie should put up the bars. British Columibia viewed with much more than alarm the orienta]ising of luxnber camps$ mining camps, and fisheries. Eastern manufacturersa sud wholesale un- porters wauted the West's business without having new prairie towns clapped upon the map over-Pight. Sitton kept on landing bis unwashed armies at Halifax, St. John, and Quebec, trailing bis colonist cars cross-continent to the land of golden grain, swinging the homesteaders out to the free lands, padding the voters' lists with unspeak- able naines, cynically disregarding ail the historic isola- 83",
         "Sir ClifFord Sifton tion of a great colourful country for the sake of the wealth it might produce and the politics it iniglit creaLte. In this hectic propaganda the brainiest man in the LaurierCabinet proved that he was bold enouglito change the character of our civilisation without guaranteeing safeguards to the Anglo-Saxon part of it. He let down the bars. Inch by inch as the problems of assimilation grew, he put them, up again. The American invasion began some while before he quit office. He encouraged it. He knew that one good Minnesotan was worth hall a dozen Ruthenians. He muade sorne effort to get a greater percentage of immigrants from Great Britain. As the Laurier Government, in 1897 enacted the prefer- ence tariff for British goods, so, Sifton admitted a preference for British people. But he neyer regretted that lie had started the waves of polyglot Europe over the prairie. With true Western dispatch he determined to do first what lie wanted and talk about it, afterwards. Wlienever bis immigration policy was attacked in the House, he was, spaxed the discomfort because lie was gradually growing deaf. And if at any tiine lie chose to listen tbrough bis ear trunipet, lie was well able to take care, of hiruseif in a -4ebate. Sifton rarely rose to speak in the House when the House Was not conscious of a master mind. He was a man witli a different sort of intellectual make-r-p froma t-he workhle was doing. He-was capable of living ini more than one world. at once. He sometimes seemed bigger than tlie Government from wvhici lie occasionally differed on certain questions of Western interest. And there wei2 times when Clifford Sifton was the target for more plain abuse than any of bis, colleagues except those fromn time to, time identified witli the Department of Railways. Yellow editors created screeds of copy out of Sifton. One argus-eyed penny-dreadfuller in Calgary muade it part of bis regular diversion to tell scandalou.s stories, about the Minister of Interior. By more tlian one editor lie was accused of becoming disproportionately ricli since lie had taken office. Hie was criticised for taking' dancing lessons. He was said to be intoxicated with the",
         "Sir Clifford Sifton glamour of his new position. It became the fashion to scurrilise Silton, who being a maxi of great ability, remarkable force of character, apparently powerful ambition, and never-failing courage, grew to expect a continuous outpouring of abuse from the Opposition both li Parliainent and press. Nobody denied that the Minister of the Interior was an expert at winning elections. That gaine *i Canada lias created many an expert-none of the intellectual. char- acter of the mani from Brandon who had for a grand hobby the breeding of high-ju.m ping horses. There were critical occasions when the remarkable ability .d experienc:e of this maxi were of service to, the country li a greater than party sense. There were turnes when lie was the critic of bis own party; other tinies when lie was tlie creature of it. But neyer was a time when tlie severest critie of Clifford Sifton dîd not admit that if Canada were ever i a great international predicament lie was the one maxi whose political acumen, shrewd practical experience, and great knowledge n-iglt be most useful to the country. As an organiser of forces lie had few equals li Ottawa at any lime of our history. As an exponent of modem tbinking coupled with practical politics lie was the xnost distinguished Janus this couxitry ever had abroad. There nàeyer was a time li the thick of an election scrim- mage that seemed to the critics to be underiing civilisation itself when Hon. Clifford Sifton, the power behixid, could not, if lie would, sit in bis study and write a powerful treatise on a]most any phase of governinent, law, politics, religion, or civilisation. Thus lie becaxe the enigma of our politics; the perennial Sphinx who, gradually growing more deaf and more aloof from the crowd, became ail tlie more mysterions aùd pregnaut in bis scrutixiy of the world at large. In any university gathering lie could speak with the power of a big modem thinker, to, whom facts were always in process of co- ordination. Anxong any group of parliamentarians or publicists, whether li London or Washington, lie had thé gift of translating bimsei1f ixito the vernacular of the",
         "Sir Clifford Sifton occasion and of traversing planes of thought unfanIiiar to, the crowd. He became the irresistible, incomprehiensible Sifton, the man who retired, fiîst fromn his portfolio in the midst of a treniendous programme, afterwards from the House where hie bad becorne a somnewhat isolated spectator; but who neyer receded froni bis ?osition as one of the foremost thinkers of our tîme ini this country. As the controlllng genius of the Manitoba Free Press (Liberal) be swung it into a liue of opposition to, bis own Govern- ment on the Manitoba School question. H'ý afterwards took some of his own miedicine when bis owu paper flatly refused to, follow bis lead on the question of reciprocity with the United States. As Chairman of the Conserva- tion Commission he had a field in which hie could, when- ever lie chose, exert a powerful influence upon any Government. As an independent thinker hie gave hiniseif the indescribable joy every now and then of coucocting a hune of syuthetic argument that mnade some people pause to say, - Well, 1 take off rny bat to Sifton when it cornes to real tbinIng expressed iu clear language. That man is- the biggest intellectual force iu Canada.\" So it goes on; the enigma of a practical politician, a superb administrator, and a target for the \" yellows,\" clairnug attention as a master intellect who, if hie chose, might have been an eminent pbilosopbic historian. We have neyer seen fit to discard tbis man as Chairman of Conservation. We can only continue to, hope that bis first duty next to bis concern for the country will be to conserve the best iu Clifford Sifton. For the best ini that man is good enough for any couutry, and bis worst is far too badifor any country ciaimiug to preserve any respect for political houesty. 86",
         "PROFESSOR JAMES MAVOR ONiE o'dlock by the Big Ben bell in tlie-tower of the City Hall. Haif the joily company of art workers have gone home. Half the others are struggling into overcoats and getting ready for night cars. 0f the remaining few that care not when tl'.y get to bed, Professor James Mavor is one of the last. Wlien Auld Lang Syne takes the floor he. may be owling in some far room at a new set of etcbings. Since he came early in the evening lie has discussed paint with one man, sculpture with another, literature and drania with haif a dozen more, and answered a score of questions about Russia put to, him by newspapermen wlio want to know hoW shortly the Russians may begin to corne back,. and witli wliat sized armies. If at that belated hour some one lias a niind to strike up a darkey song to, a guitar or give a ventriloquial performance, the prqfessor of political, economy turns as quickly as a bird on a bough, liglits a fr\"slà cigarette\u003e and proceeds to, get a new lease of energetic bonliomie. And to look at him any tixne lie may be compelled- to keep silence, the wonder is that such a -négligé sort of man ever could divert him- self froma the plodding profundities of a wearisome sub- jeet long enougli to, appear as thougli he belongs to the sa.me-genus and age as our own. James Mavor is the most spontaneous, bundie of surprise elements in the college life of Canada. You do flot regard himn as a mere scholar. There are in fact those who cynically doubt that lie lias ever achieved ultiniate scliolarship. In a world of multitudinous objects of researchi Mavor has kept biniseif dynamically on the go, sometiines witli the swift energy of tlie wiiid Indian on trail of a fox. But tliere neyer was a time, so, far as lie is known to bis hosts of casual acquaintances, when lie was 87",
         "Professor James Mavor unable to tiurn from the main trail and foilow a side path whenever it struck bis fancy. Moving along the crowded street-the day may be as hot as -:ý. L!-nna and the crowd sweltering and dawd- ling-Maiur, with a linen coat, a Bermudan helmet, and a flamboyant stick, goes hotfoot by the mile, shoulders bent as thougli the problem whose main dlue he wanted were likely to pop like a hunted weasel out of any door- way. With the reputation for having written the longest book of aii'y author in Canada on one of the dryest sub- jects ini the cosmos, he keeps bis mind as; ingenuously fresli and as inimediately interested as a child's. Look- ing like an archSologist lie- is ini reality an ingenue. The world is fair in front of bis nose. The tbing hie wants is eye to eye. But if necessary when lie rises at a meeting to, spak- the compartment of bis mind that happens to be, in working order, lie can go spindrifting back into the past ages for a precedent, into unheard-of lands fc$r a parailel, and into that particular point in space where ail the art lines converge to provide himself with an angle. Among some of the less erudite and more envious university men Mavor is considered an enigma of unrelated knowledges. Thougli he professes political, economy lie does not practise it. He is in rnany respects mÈost prodigal. To have written a book so enormously extensive as bis recent politico-economic encyclopSfdia of Russia, he must have been compeiled now and then to concentrate. But the complète work took hlm witbin three years of the time it took Gibbon to, do the Decline and EaU of the Roman Empire. To get the mere informa- tion contained in this work he spent many months in Russia, engaged a permanent Russian- secretary, studied the R.ussian language, and we may be sure every other accessory that hie could flnd among so interesting and obscure a people. One cannot imagine Mavor doing such a work on a country like Montenegro. He must have space. -The vast nnknowabilities of* Russia ln Europe and Asia attracted powerfully bis roving, peripatetic brain. The 88",
         "Professor James Mavor slow glacial movements of Russian civilisation suited weil bis indeterÀ~inate processes of thinking. Micro- scepic exactitude was flot the main thing. Cosinic iin extenso was the field in which, working year by year with the rnarvellous precautionary patience of the Scot and the charmed ingenuousness of the schoolboy, Mavor in bis researches into Russian political. economy seemed like the cosmic painters who, as descilbed by Kipling, wii \" splash on a ten-league canvas with brushes of comet's hair.\" If any Canadian academic: of our times might be afraid to live too long lest he should exhaust the sources of knowledge, that- man is Mavor. Yet if Mavor should outive Methuselah he would stiil be searching after something as near like the truth as pos--sible. H-Ye does not wait for the slow processes of induction. He gene- ralises i broad big sweeps. The fabric of bis particular thinIng may contain threads fromn seven more or less unrelated worlds. It is all plain as a pyrainid on the desert to, hlm. 'You wonder you had not thought of it long ago. Wbile you were groping along a lane he has been careering out in a landscape of interesting and paradoxical fields. You may inquire scepticafly how the fungus on a snalce rail fence relates to the cubic contents of the silo behind the faxmer's barn, and both to the oesthetic, quality of the figurations in the housew-ife's ho. :.e-made rag rug. Mavor shows you. And while the knowledge may neyer be of any direct practical use, it interests the inquirer, stimniates, the brain, and gives Mavor another chance to spin one of bis glorified webs of philosopbic information. When any pert critic asks why this man did flot choose archoeology as bis métier instead of p9olitica1 economy, the explanation is obvious. The past alone neyer would satisfy Mavor. The present alone would merely irritate hlm. The future would be inexplicable and monstrous without the liglit of both past and present. And political economy is the oxily sphere of knowledge-which enables a man to correlate the activities of nianind, in ail âges into one: scheme of thought. It involves the study of ail",
         "Professor James Mavor human works-indu-atry, science, agriculture, painting, music, draina, applied art, literature, governuent, laws, ruanners, and customs, eyen religion. In Mavor's scope of the subject it is flot more fundanientally concernied with Adamn Smith and I-cardo than with Beethoven and Michelangelo. The science by wbich mxan correlates himseif to the world of xnaking a living is neyer old, neyer measurably nearer completion. It is the perennial, recreating subject. Men may corne and men may go. Political economy remains. So for that matter does geology; but the story of that is pretty well ail tabloided and ticketed by the geologists. So aiso does astronomy; but it is some while now since the astronomers sur- rendered the stage Ôf celestial, inquiry to the psychicist and the spiritist. But ihe epic of mani working upon his environinent from the first axe of the cave-maxi until the co-ordination of the explosives in a modern sheil is forever iii process of renewal. Mavor neyer seems to have time to ask questions. If lie wants to know somne one thing lie may stop li lis walk to interrogate the navvy worixig with his shovel. Before thxe séance is over lie may have told the navvy seven things ini exchange for bis one. Mavor began to be an eclectic when lie was a youth at the University of Glasgow, in which ci*y he was stili a young mani whei lie becamne professor of political economy and statistics at St. Mungo's College. Wbile lie was still at St. Mtingo's lie wrote articles for technical journals, becamne a director of the Glasgow Working- men's Dwelling Company, engaged in the. university extension movement, and edited the Art Reiee. He also found turne to grow vast varieties of shrubs anid trees and flowers, which lie stili dabbles with a bit on bis extensive grounids at No. 8, University Crescent, Toronto. While stili under middle age lie was engaged by the Associated Charities of Glasgow to study labour colonies in Germaxiy. The British Board of Trade asked hlm, to extend bis investigations to Belginni, Holland, and lIraxice. I 1r892 Professor Mavor succeeded Professor Ashley",
         "Professor James Mavor in the chair of political science at the University of Toronto. Ai .ley, ftrst incumbent of the chair, had lured a large nunber of young men into the dazzling pursuit of a novelty. But Ashley was a brilliant crusader. When Mavor came, a niiddle-aged man with the look of old age and of erudition, careiless, of-clothes and disdaln- fui of average incompetence, he overwhehned the students with correlations of facts. H1e delivered him- self after the manner of a man who had no time to wait for mere mental preparation. He was, neyer anxious to limit the subjeet to the appetite of -bis audience. Any student of political, economy must be omnivorous. In fact Mavor was neyer particular te apply bis know- ledge openly to conditions with which students miglit be more or less familiar in a new country. At that time he knew very littie about Canada and the varying local conditions from which young men had emerged to attend college. The mere newspaper xnethod of proceeding from the known to the unknmown was too obvions. The tbing that was remote must be the beginning; that which was near at hand explained by the remote. It was Mavor's historical method. Yet he was neyer an unpractical mnan. On two occa- sions atter lie was appointed to Toronto lie undertook large investigative contracts for the British and Canadian Governments. One carne to hlm from the Hon. Clifiord Sifton, then Minister of the Interior, who engaged hlm to inquire into the problem of ixnporting Doukliobors to Canada. Mavor investigated the spirit-w.restlers and other forms of coxumunities of similar character in Russia and advised that these people be irmnigrated into the nortli-west prairies. They came, they took up land' They colonised and built villages. And for -years afterwards mountedpolice had trouble to keep them from, going with- out clothes. It is years now since the fanatical Dou- khobors gave any trouble to the authorities. Mavor's experiment bas succeeded. But for some tine, part of it was regarded as the worst jc.ke in the history of Canadian immigration. The Cther préblein which Mavor was asked to investi-",
         "Professor James Mavor gate was a corollary of the first. If immigration, then being carried out on a large scale, was to be kept up, it was importdnt toknmow what was the capacity ofCanadian Crown lands for growing wheat. Malthus, the economi* clergyman, had once proclaixned the pessimistic doctrine Of \"'population pressing upon subsistence,\u003e whereby he predicted that some day the earth would be too populous for its resources. The British Board of Tirade wanted to know if such a doctrine niight be true of the Canadian North-West, then being rapidly populated and railrkoaded under a progressive Liberal goverment. Profesor Mavor undertook the task as cheerfuily as he had once investigatedlabourcolonjes in Europe. ie came back with the Malthusian prediction that unrestricted immgration to the West for purposes of wheat-growing was inadvisable. The Western people, the railway pro- nioters, the immigration department, and several news- paper editors were indignant. It had been fondly hoped that Canadian wheat-growing was practically illimitable on a profit basis bet.ween the -American border and the north edge of the Peace River vailey. For sorne time the Mavor estimate was scathingly unpopular. Not long after the agitation died away, farmers in the West began to- discover that it cost on an average as much to raise an acre of wheat as it produced ini revenue at the average price per bushel; that owýing to cliniatic variations the yield fluctuated from year to year; and that more inten- sive farming #as more econornic. Even in 1915 With 14o,ooo,ooo, bushels, more of a wheat crop than was ever before known in that country owing to the caxnpaign for increased production, there is much sagacions tàlk as to the wisdoma of the Western farmer going mnore extensively into mixed farniing. But it always took a Mavor doctrine consîderable time to percolate through the average brain. If the people who a few yeaxs ago were victimised by real estate experts and subdivisionists into investing in unseen and intangible town lots could have asked, bis advice, they n-iglt now have been better in pocket. But after all what has such a corporeai subject to do",
         "iProfessor James Mavor with the collection of japanese prints, the study of Oriental art, and the gathering of natural wood walking sticks? Down in the Isle of Orleans a couple of years ago Mavor was on a visit to Horatio Walker, artist, to, whom he had written at one o'clock in the xnorning at an art club smoker to, accept the presidency of the club.. The habitant natives of the island saw the somewhat long- haired and ubiquitous Professor day by day cutting a new species of stick from, the prodigal, trees and lugging them home. They said lie was crazy. And if they could have seen Mavor ini Toronto laughing like a child at a Punch and Judy show, they zuiglit have had- no doubt of it. Sucl i s the iuresolvable character of the man who occupies the chair of political, economy in the University ,of Toronto--but occupies biniseif with alinost everything ,else.",
         "HENRI BOURASSA FAIR amidsbips of Le Devoir is the large, gloomy office of the chief editor; Iighted 1 forget how, except by the eyes and the wit of the editor who sat at a long Iitterish table\u003e as it seemed to me -amid battlements of books and pamphlets. To the restless ruinhie of busy presses he had just finished an article which in a day or two would be causing some Ontario editor to publish an Englih translation with a maledictory comment. No doubt an attack on some part of the BÉitish Empire; some furtb.er proof that England was a spider i the midst of a very shaky web. But that neyer disturbs Mr. Bourassa's amiability. He was tempestuously glad, to see the visitor. The instant: impression was that anybody who got into, bis sanctum. hati a welcome to, ail the editor knew about anything. At once the visitor intimated that many people con- sidered 14r. Bourassa a strange man. He laughed- somewhat savagely -and accused a certain French- Canadian paper of being the Quebec mouthpiece of a Montreal newspaper rnagnate whose chief business it seemed was to head the wolf-pack of other Anglo-editors in ccoriating Mr. Bourassa. That was text enough for a draina; which the editor of Le Devoir enacted in less than an hour of most excitable conversation mainly conducted by himself. Feverish to convince another Anglophile that the whole world outside Le Devoir was upside down, he leaned over the table and glared into thue visitor's eyes. His right index finger pointed at the visitor's, nose. He half rose in bis chair amid fervent gesticulaticns. His voice became a screarn. He laughed for exuphasis. Had the conversa- tion begun about the sociology of Timbuctoo or the theory of the nebular hypothesis, it wouid have gravi-",
         "Henri Bourassa tated back to the one theme that keeps Mr. Bourassa at full orchestra every waking moment. That theme was the French-Canadian race in Quebec. In evolving his oration to the audience of one, Mr. Bourassa becaine a brilliant exposition of lucid think- ..ng, a master of Engllsh, and an exaniple of incandescent conviction. Ail the visitor was able *to say clearly was that the night before he had been stranded in Nicolet. P.Q., where he found scarcely anybody who could speak English. .\"Why,\"- said Mr. Bourassa, 1I can find you scores of people in Nicolet who speak English.\" To him Quebec wvas dotted with Nicolets. It was not true that the French Canadians were isolated from English ideas. And in amy case where was there a village the size of Nicolet in Ontario where three men wvere able to, spealc French? Had the visitor asked the logical question, why the Ontario villager shovtd speak French in an Anglo-Saxon country, the argument would have lasted ail day. But Mr. Bourassa had an appointment up-town and would be glad to, continue the conversation on the open street. .±mid the swirllng crowds along St. James, aniong the banks and the office buildings, he went on with bis oration. In the jungle noises of the city his was the wild cat's voice audible above ail else. Perfectly unconscious that lie was a curiosity, lie seemed oblivious to every other consideration. In a common man that niight be intensity. In Bourassa it becaie a mania. The man who edits the organ of the Nationalist move- ment in Canada has been in the wrong world ever since h.e was old enougli to vote. He extracts a pessimistic ecstasy from the efforts he. has made to reforma the British Empire. He has spent a feverishly active 111e chasing up. an ideal. What it is liehlas neyer succeeded ln convimcing amybody--even.the readers of Le Devoir. lu 1908 on the lieights of Quebec there was one of the greatest bistorical pageants ever seen in the world. It was the Champlain Tercentenary, celebrating 300 yeais of mew Canada since Champlain discovered",
         "Henri Bourassa Quebec. Grand tableaux historiques, marvellously beautiful processions, old French chansons blending with the poetic ding-dong of vesper beils from fnine parishes at once\u003e made English-speaking spectators thrill with nameless emotions. Frenchi Canadians were the actors, on a stage that had the surlit, St. Lawrence for footlights and the bine domes of the great Lauretian his for a background curtain. The preseunt King of England was the most notable spectator. His warships lay black and grim in the harbour below. When it was ail over and the I-ndomitable steatned down to, the guif and away, even blasé visitors from Boston and New York realised that there had been another spectacle of Empire. It was the draina of a self-govemning dual people on the very spot where a century and a haif earlier brave Frenchinen and gallant Englishmen fouglit for the mastery of that part of the New World. Was Henri Bourassa there? If s0 it was to make copy for Le Devoir. When he thought of that pageant did he smile? No, Bourassa neyer srniles. He probably laughed and jabbed do'wn another vitriolic paragraph. Henri Bourassa is an idealist who has become a fanatic; a reactionary who lias developed into a radical. He lias a vision; one of the few men in Canada who ever had one long enougli to, Jet it make hum miserable. The vision of Bourassa is symbolised by a certain kind of coîinunity. It is the Frencli-Canadian village or small town of anythmng from 500 to 5000 unhabitants; dormer- windowed.littie houses and fat\u003e fertile gardens, beehives and tobacco plots, cob horses that scamaper up the lis as thougli the devil hixnself were after them., simple villagers that go to the field, the factory, or the office with no yearning for either wealth or. new ideas, and twinling priests that lose themselves in the big churcli with a tin spire and a poetic: bell on the roof that sings vespers down the vailey in tones of perfect and pe'r- petual peace. To keep sucli a community one of hundreds of sucli littie commnonwealths from. Montreal to Gaspé, Henri Bourassa is willling to be a man of war. He is the head 97 G",
         "Henri Bourassa of the Nationalist movement i the Province of Quebec; and the Nationalist movement sei~ns to have been born ini order to give Bourassa a field for bis peculiar and passionate gemius. Bor n Montreal, educated there by private tuition, lie afterwards studied law and learned English. As a student-at-law lie necessarily interpreted both the common law of the Dominion of Canada, English in its origin and boru of a bi-lingual Parliament, and the statutes of the Province of Quebec, which in spirit if not, in form went, back to the feudal days of old France. Here 'was a paradox. The veiy city in which Mr. Bourassa studied law was governed mainly by the Frenchi and doniinated by Anglo-Saxons. At the age of twenty he Ieft Montreal and opened an office in a littie town called Montebello, of which, he afterwards becanie the mayor, and where lie married the lady wlio lias done mucli to, keep Mr. Bourassa from being more violent than lie is. The Nationalist leader's devotion to, bis wffe is both an idyll and an ideal. At a 'huge Nationalist meeting in Montreal some years ago lie turned on the platform and publicly issed Madame Bourassa. Long before he xnarried, Henlri Bourassa liad become an intense student of history, as may be observed from reading bis pamphlets -and editoriais. Bis understand- ing of history was, laxgely political. Be entered politics as a Liberal and a follower of Laurier. In 18g6, wheu Laurier became Premier, Bourassa entered the Bouse of Couinons as member for Labelle. Most of the Freucli-Canadian members were Laurier- ites out-and-out. Bourassa followed Launier with limi- tations. Be was a critic. Had lie obeyed lus irnmediate impulses lie miglit have become an Independent; but that gaine had been tried, by English-speaking, members without mucli success. Third parties have always corne croppers at Ottawa. -Mr. Bourassa was keen enougli to see a bigger issue than merely being a personal, dissenter under a powerful leader. 1It will be remembered. tliat in thie argument over the",
         "Henri Bourassa Kaiser titie in Germnany it was decided by Bisnmarck against the will of old William I. that the King of Prussia was not to be known as the Emperor of Germany but as the German, Emperor;, the old monarchies were to stand. Bourassa made a shrewd note of the fact that Laurier was the French-Canadian leader of the Liberal party, but nQt a leader of French Canada. There was no such leader. French Canada outside of the old line of political parties had neyer been organised. The race unity of the habitant people had neyer been asserted since the days of Wolfe and Montcalmn. An English-speakzing majority in Parliament treated the French mlnority as either Liberals or Conservatives. Laurier hiruseif spoke mainly in English, when Hansard was and is as much French as English. French reporters took- down the debates which were prlnted in both languages. French correspondents in the press gailery sent French despatches to the offices of French news- papers in Montreal and Quebec. French editors of littie weekly newspapers, under the thuinb of the priest- hood, pu.rveyed the news of Parliarnent in simple French language to the habitant who read as littie as he could and went out to hear political speeches every time ?.n orator came into the parish. This bi-lingual paradox becoruie the besetting theme of Bourassa. By the British North America Act Quebec, the land of the large family in population, was muade the pivot of representation in the Cornons. The nuinher of members from Quebec could neyer fali below sixty- five. Yet the Premiers in this bi-lingual, Quebec- pivoted Parliament had since Confederation been Anglo-Saxons, and the new Premier, a Frenchi Canadian, was the avowed, protagonlst of British institution-, and democracy, and himself spoke to'Parliament more in Englih titan in French. As an independent Liberal Bourassa aspired to leader- ship. -Hle was hirnself an orator; a master of French in ail its idiorus, and of Englisin l its forensic forru. As a thoughtful foreigner often acquires only the classie out- lines of the English tongue by reading it in translation 99",
         "HIenri Bourassa ,of masterpieces, so Bourassa learned to speak Englisli for the sake of argument and paid no heed to, the friendly idioms that express the plain huxnanity of any people. In becoming a master of controversial English Bourassa had more method than madness. His obsess- ing vision of a united French Canada under the titie of Na#~onalists witli himself as Nationalist leader made it necessary that lie sliould speak and write not only to French but to Anglo-Saxon people. Writing and speaking lie was perpetually a forensic. 0f the two lie prefers speech. 0f the two languages lie prefers the Frenchi; and when Bourassa gets up of a Sunday afternoon before a suminer congress of habitants and villagers with long lines of horses tied on the out- skirts of the campus lie always becomes the fiame of the Frencli-Canadian fires. Long before lie broke with the Liberal party he had learned to gauge bis remarkable power in delivering great harangues to sucli assemblies. Johnnie Courteau loves a great speech, especially wlien lie may not know wliat haif of it means. He adores magniloquent gesticulations. Bourassa is not a mere rlietorician on the stage. He is a sort of Gabriel d\u003eAnnunzio as he yearns witli blazing eyes and spiked- up, unpoetic liair over the great crowd to, stir tliem. to their deptbs, to play witli theni as the wind frolics with the forest trees, knowing that wlien lie speaks to tliem lie puts Frencli Canada first in the imaginations of bis hearers, vwitliout attempting to make plain to the people just what that Frenchi Canada may hope to become in a confederate, modem Canada. In 1899 Bourassa directly opposed bis leader Laurier on the question of sending Canadian troops to the Southi African War. That was a w*ar of Empire. Wliat liad the habitant or the Anglo-Saxon Canadian to, do witli sucli a war at the bottom end of the world? Wliat did if matter that Englisli settlers ini Southi Africa claimed the sanie riglits ini goverument and citizenship as Frenchi -Canadians were freely granted ini Canada? To Mr. Bourassa the Boer was the squatter who liad the riglit ef possession and of dictation. The Englishman was the",
         "Henri Bourassa interloper as he had been on the St. Lawrence. There- fore, Canadians, and especially French Canadians, should take no hand in such a struggle. Bourassa made his position clear to the Parliament and the people of Canada by resigning his seat ini the House. The stage was sumptuously set for the occasion. Bourassa had dramatic genius enough--to know it. His defection fromn the Liberals and from Laurier was flot now a merely personal matter. Lt was not simply a French-Canadian move. Lt was an Imiperial issue. By that stroke of near-genlus Bourassa became the accredited leader of the so-called Nationalist party in Quebec and in the House of Commons. The race unit that he had worked so feverishly to define in the popular imagination was welded into a more or less organic fusion. Laurier and the Liberals, Tupper and the Con- servatives, still had their followings for political purposes. Bourassa only claimed the supreme right to speak as the leader of the French-Canadian race. He was re-elected by acclamation for Labelle inii 190, and continued to sit as member in the Commons for seven years. In elections he no w found himself able to swing bis Nationalist party in support of either one side or the other. HIe was the dictator of the party. He saw its practical use in embarrassing governnients and in winning elections. In 1907 he left the Commnons and entered the Quebec Legisiature. The political atmosphere of Ottawa was flot ind to him. The Nationalist party in the House gathered strength too slowly. He found a more con- genial atuiosphere in Quebec. Ln irii bis Nationalist organisation helped f0 defeat the Liberals by sitting on the side of the Conservatives in fhe House. The party of Bourassa aimed t0 hold the balance of power and to inicrease it. As the member for St. H{yacinthe ini the Quebec Legisiature Mr. Bourassa continued to humn tilt he burned himself out in i912 and retired from practical, polit ics. Le~ Devoir and the- public platform, are now bis arena, and he has roomn and licence enougli in both to be loi",
         "Henri Bourassa the greatest mischief-maker ini the Empire. The differ- ence between a good egg and a rotten one is no greater than the contrast betiveen what Bourassa's brilliant abilities miglit have done to work out the destiny of the French Canadians under the British flag and what he is doing now to hinder that programame. Now that the Empire is into its second great struggle sinoe Bourassa became an irrational politician, he goes out with bis- torical fire ini bis eyes and dares to say that British navalism is as bad as German Imperialism, and that true French Canadians should flot recruit into the Canadian army. .Mr. Bourassa xnight be asked to, consider: if the British Empire were flot the most tolerant democracy under the sun-iow would the editor of Le Devoir beI perxnitted to attack it on the platform and inI the press, not once, but again and again? The fact that -lenr* Bourassa is a free citizen, and that Le Devoir continues to circulate, is proof that the Frenchi Canadian lias more riglits under the British flag than lie ever could have had under any flag of France. Mr. Bourassa uses history to support bis arguments. Does lie remnember that one Will'am I. once went froin Nornnandy and both conquered and Normanised England? The very language wbich Mr. Bourassa took so, mucli trouble to leara is hlf Norman Frenchi. \"Yet in Quebec aTId in the Canadian Parliament the Britishi conqueror of New France has establislied the dual language system whereby Frenchi is as mucli the vehicle of Parliaxnentary debate as -English, and is tauglit in the schools of Quebec to the exclusion of English. Mr. Bourassa asserts the riglit of the Frenchi Canadian to a national existence under the Crown of Britain; separate in language, religion, education, race ideals, and political unity. For what? Does modemn France bear England any grudge for the capture of Quebec? If so, it is being expressed on the battlefields of France and Flanders where the bonies of English and 17rencli onte more lie*siCe by side, this time in a common cause. 102 t",
         "Henri Bourassa Mr. Bourassa cannot get from President Poincare or Premier Briand any endorsation of bis dreamn. Then from, whom? Sir Wilfrid Laurier, the greatest living Frencli Canadian, does flot support him. 0f the sixty- more or less-French-Canadian niembers of Parliament, a very small percentage care a cob horse for the Nationalist idea. Among the clergy-ah! that may be different. Archhishop Brtichesi of Montreal is a Nationalist, and there may be scores of bishops and priests who, for the sake of an undisturbed Catholic régime and plenary Churcli dues, would stand up for the French-Canadian preserve. What of the Pope? No doubt lie is in favour of the idea. Quebec is now the one part of the New World wliere Rome lias a solidarity in a ricli country. But even the Pope lias no fear that the Churcli of Rome ini Canada is being undermined by British rule or by Protestant missionaries in Quebec. On the whole, we may conclude that it is Henri Bourassa, the creator of the separatist party, who really wants the Nationalist idea to prevail. Bourassa is weak enougli to crave for power which lie neyer could get as the Frencli-Canadian leader lu either of the old parties. Witli infinitely more brain-power and a hlgher per- sonality, lie somewhat reminds us of tlie pompous and fretful Louis Riel wlio in 1[885 aimed to set up some sort of kingdom of the Metis backed up by the red me n on the Saskatchewan. Riel was hanged as a traitor. Mr. Bourassa will neyer be lianged. He wiIl be remembered as a man wlio was so, mucli of a parochial patriot, to, bis own conception of Frenchi Canada that lie becanie disloyal to, the Canada and the Empire of whicli it is a part; as a student of history who in the twentietli century miade a strenuous but feeble effort to undo tlie work of bistory; as a brilliant foreign investigator wlio becanie bigoted by a fixed idea sucli as in lesser intellects makes people mad; as a man wlio, ln order to justify an absurd and untenable attitude, cried out that lie was always misunderstood. It is the privilege of every ordinary man to be under- stood. If tlie majority of Canadians have failed to under- 10O3",
         "Henri Bourassa stand Henri Bourassa-perhaps it is well to remember that the asylinns of any country are full of people who imagine the world at large misunderstands tbem. Mr. Bourassa will probably ýay that the writer of this articlej misunderstands him. So alsc, does the average habitant of Quebec. Why, with such unmistakable power as an advo- cate, such scholarship, eloquence, and passionate self- immolation for an idea, has Bourassa failed to capture Quebec ? He has recently said that under certain con- ditions he mighit be hanged for bis utterances. He seems to, overlook the fact that French Canadians are not interested in hangings or particularly ln martyrdoms; the habitant is psychologically many removes from a Sinn Feiner. The habitant is a practical, thrifty person who refuses to taike bis politics, too seriously, loves Quebec because it is his fertile and picturesque mother, France only because three centuries ago it was his ancestral land, England as such very little, the Empire as sucb flot at ail. The habitant prefers to be let alone. In the defence of Quebec he would %lht like a wild cat. But as Quebec has neyer been menaced since bis great-grandfather was bomn he has no conception of what soldiering means in a world wvar Practically, the habitant does flot belong to the world. He lives, moves, and bas bis being in Quebec. And he would love Quebec perbaps a littie more if men like Bourassa and bis lieutenant Lavergne would leave him alone; in which case he miZht even be stimulated to become a recruit. Bourassa understands no Nationalism. except that of Quebec, wbich he bas himself created. To hlm. there is no possibility of a modemi nation called Canada unless the important part of it is symbolised by Quehec and the Frenchi language; no0 sucb national possibillty as a fusion of many races into one people. Therefore Mr. Bourassa goes on record as a radical who, can neyer be anytbing but a superb reactionary, and who will have to bis credit only the iact that he tried to, perpetuate in French Canada a dream of old France, in a part of the world where modern progress must -go on or the New 1104",
         "Henri Bourassa World fails in the world's work-as Henri IBourassa has done. \"At least we have ideas to interest the people-the old parties have none,\u003e is the buoyant assertion of the Nationalist leaders. The dlaim is worth a definition. Ob,stacles to Nationalistie evolution in other provinces than Quebec do not arise from a lack of vitalising and iructifying ideas. The real difficulty is in their flamu- boyant tragic presentation. Some of the best principles in Mr. Bourassa's programme, if given the broad appli- cation which he dlaims for thema but seldom gets, thanks to his own hysterical expression of them, will yet be accepted by Canadians whob neyer see Quebec. Canada for Canadians shold be obvious enough for even a citizen of Tory and, in Bourassa's phrase, \" Yankee \" Toronto. That is not ultimately Canada for the Empire, nor for the United States, but a country owned by its people who give to it their lives, their allegiance, and their cbildren from generation to generation. But Canada is flot a nation such as France, Russia, or England. Canada is not a one-language but a multi-language people. The polyglottism of the present and the future is built upon a two-language basis historically English and French. To the Bourassa party every language and literature as an expression of race is a sacred thing. Canada must speak many languages. The melting-pot can neyer obliterate them. The strength of a congress nation like Canada and the United States depends upon the preservation of race-languages everywhere, with as many racial customs and characteristics; as are consistent with practical citizenship in any part of the country. Therefore the Frenchi language and Frernýhlfcustoms must be preserved to the French in Canada. The religion goes with the language, though in the Nationalist view less essential. «\"Our people are flot priest-ridden,\" say the Nationalists. Racial customs; industries, and traditions must be perpetuated. The Natic\u003enalist programme takes much account of native folk-industiies in Québec, of fo]k-lore and folk- songs and fireside customs. The longer these are pre- los",
         "Henri Bourassa served in Canada the more essentially they become part of the national life. French traditions are three centuries old in Canada. Therefore they are historically Canadian even more than they are French. So with English tradi- tions. Lýogically so with the race-idioms of any of the people ini Canada;- The melting-pot is flot a nationalising institution. People do flot fuse. .They merelv live together ini harxnony, obeying the lawvs of the cozutry made by a Parliament that represents ai the peoples. By the B.N.A., French was given equal parliamentary statns with English. Therefore as a race-expression, the French language bas a priority over any other non- English tongues in the country. The kaw bas made it so. The genius of a, loyal people is to obey tht: \"aw anid to, defend the country. Canadian law says, that in case of necessity for defence, ail male inhabitants of mnih*tary age shall bear arros. The Nationalist says- SEnforce the law that exists and we will become soldiers ini this war, but if you leave it to, voluntary enlistinent we wili flot enlist becatise, as a people and a free nation, Canada was flot consulted about the declara- tion of war. Do flot expect us -*%o -fight, unless we have a voice in declaring war, neither out of respect for Great Britain as the centre of an Empire in which we do flot believe, nor for the sake of France to, whom we owe just the same degree of allegiance that thie United States owes to E-ngland-no more. Expect us to, fight in the defence of Canada as a free people and Quebec will stand second to no other Province, because when we fight for Canada we fight for a country that to, us means al that Patria can Inean, nor ini Quebec only, but from the Atlantic to tue Pacific.\"- Such is the substance of the Nationalist creed as Mr. Bourassa aims to express it. That he fails to maire himself understood outside of Quebec is the fauit of bis own irreconcilable and disturbing genius. :1o6",
         "ARCHBISHOP BRUCHESI STAND on Mount Royal, looking down towards the heart of the city where the C.P.R. tower and the dome of St. James' corne alm-ost into the saine focus of the camnera --and if you could fancy the blue St. Lawrence were the tawny Tiber, and St. Helen's Island one of seven bis, you might be pardoned for imagining the picture to, be Rome. Look farther eastward at the two great towers of Notre D)ame ainong threescore and more cross-tipped spires, and1 it might seern to resemble Paris. Bv'-, of course, Montreal resembles Rome about as closely as it does Athens or Port Said. Yet the dome and nave of St. James', even the transepts, are the exact replica of St. Peter's in Rome seen through the wrong end of a field-ý;lass. Built in Archbishop Fabre's turne, not so, very long ago, St. Jamaes' was calculated to be a 33r- per cent, miniature of St. Peter's; as though it were foreseen that the very next Archbishop would have an Italian name-Bruchesi. There the intentional, ilusion vanishes. To Orange- men in Canada, of course, St. James' is as good as St. Peter's. Otherwise the picture is more like Paris. Piiests--barefoot, tonsured, gaberdined; nuns and sisters-black, grey, and dun; Palm. Sunday and the Easter market; paxish bells jargoning out ceremonious ideals over a ponderously pretentious city of noise, of great railway terminais and many .sbips; siege-built stone walls as thick as forts, monastic retreats, and college cadets froin Lava-it is as near a huge pateli of Paris, yet as mucli unlike Paris as may be, as could be found. in America. It is the arclhbishopric of ]3rachesi. Down in the old market, where the gilded angels of 107",
         "Archbishop Bruchesi old Bonsecours Church -ean out over the docks to welcome the sailors, homespun habitants jabber among their red beeves, honey-pots, and twists of Frenchi- Canadian tabac. To thèm thids Montreal of the seventy parishes and the hundreds of priests is ail of the Eternal City they wiil ever see. If they drive their rickety carts so far west as the towers of Notre Dame and the dome of the Bank of Montreal across the Place d'Armes, Square\u003e they nxay hip along until presently they corne into view of St. James' with the twelve tawdry aposties over the façade and the ugly red-brick palace of the Archbishop abutting on the south wal1. Nowhere else in the world is there an archbishopric nie this. And Archbishop.Bruchesi knows every cranny of it, whether the symbol be shanirock, spaghetti, or the fleur-de-lis. French, Irish, Italian, ail are here in the rnidst of an Anglo-Saxon scheme of economyï a threefold community in a littie world of big pro- bleuis. lears ago this Archbishop with an Italian naine was visiting the Archbishop of Dublin. While there he paid a visit to the tômb of Daniel O'Conneil. From the grave or near it he plucked a bunch of shainrock which he sent to the palace of St. James', with instructions that a sprig of it should be sent with bis greetings to every Irish priest in Montreal the Sunday before St. Patrick's Day. A simple thing; but it showed a fine complexity of tact in this Archbishop, with three nationalities cohering in one spiritual comxnunity. This voltaic little man, Paul Bruchesi, might be diplomatic enough to wink the other eye and, like good Friar Tuck, have a fine time with the Sherif of Notting- bain. But he is the wrong man to escape troubles. A few years ago there was a capricious opera in Montreal with a Canadian prima donna iu the titie râle- that gave Canadian opera-goers a taste of \"' Paree'\" But there went out an edict from the dome of St. James' to censor this capering French opera of Charpentier with its spicy dialogues between Louise aud the shop- girls. The capricious opera was withdrawn and the 1oS",
         "Archbishop Bruchesi management substituted another more pleasing to, the Archbishop. Shortly afterwards one Godfroy Langlois, genial editor, in bis own paper Le Pays, came bard at the Church ini Quebec because of the backward state of education. It ivas proclaimed from the pulpits of Montreal that unless Le Pays should cease its diatribes the paper should be placed under the ban. Quebec was no -place for \" com- pulsory free education \" according to the ideas of Langlois. Ipse dixit Bruchesi. Some timae ago there was talk of a Cardinal's red bat for Bruchesi. Just a littie while before there had been the enormous IEucharistic Congress ini Montreal. Delegates and dignitaries from ail over -America represented the papal nations. And there was no man of them afl. better entitled to, cosmopolitan regard than the Archbishop whose father was an Italian, mother a French Canadian, and whose secretary is an Irisb. priest. But the red bat went to Archbisbop, Begin of the Basilica i Quebec. Anti-Bruchesians may explain that by calling Ris Eniinence of Montreal a reactionary. But it may be asked-wbat bisbop on the St. Lawrence is so well suited by birth, temperanient, and experience for tbe many-headed business of presiding at St. James'? Bruchesi with ail bis limitations bas mapped out a big restless programme in Montreal. Part of the programme is a dreani. Bruchesi bas a vision. Since he came to St. James' in 1897 he has seen Montreal feverishly rebnilding itself with commercial swank ail about the medioeval reliques of the old Franco-Indian campgronnd and the seventy cburches mnder that central dome. Montreal politicians are divided among Liberals, Conservatives, and Nationalists, just as Montreal Catholicism is divided by the Masonic element. Education, is attacked by Langlois and bis friends. Temperance bas to figbt against Sunday bars. French people delight in spicy operas. Charities. must be kept * Muicpal corruption.must be kept down. TeJ nube 0, and are a big factor behind, Langlois. The Irisb have their own churches, their own religious paper, their turn at the log",
         "Archbishop Bruchesi mayoralty, and their St. Patrick's parades. And even French editors disagree like so many Kilkenny cats upon the status of the. Frenchi Canadian i the British Empire. That krind of archbishopric is notgovemned by pageants, paternosters, and pipe-organs. To be bath comfortable and aggressive~ the Archbishop must have at least one deep-rooted, passionate idea with the dimensions of a dream. .Bruchesi lias that dominating idea. What is it? We shall see. Meanwhile remember that Bruchesi was born in this city of change. He was educated in Montreal, in France, and iri Roine; in 1897 he becaine Archbishop and began ta be a practical politician. When the 1ongshoremen i Montreal struck for better conditions and biglier wages the Archbishop, was made Chairrnan of the Board of Conciliation. It was an odd post for ah Archbishop; ta Bruchesi quite obvious. In the province of Quebec there is one industrial doctrine which mnust neyer so far as possible be abrogated. If that doctrine can be maintained i Montreal it is safe anywhere in Frenchi Canada. It is the practical theory that as far as possible Frenchi Canadians should flot go on strike. A strike ties up industry and interferes with wages. The Churcli needs the wages. A prominent, Montreal manufacturer somewhat cynicaily remarked to the writer, \" The Roman Catholic bishop is the best stuike-preventer in Canada.\"' But strikes are as much a part of advancing civilisation as bar-rooms and operas and contending editors. The Archbishop of Montreal knows, it. Therefore he hates the AniericanFederation of Labour. Bruchesi wouldnational- ise ail labour problems. But the leaders of thought down at the Labour Temple behind the littie Jacques Cartier Market are very scornful of the national movement i labour. They are a brandi of the A.F. of L. They are friends of Langlois, the agitator who, would have free education made compùflsory, and Québec, 'with all its needful chaos of labour grievances, strikes, and struggle",
         "* f Y",
         "Archbishop Bruchesi with.capital\u003e take its place in competition with ail other provinces of the Dominion. I must confess to a slight- disillusionment the morning I had the pleasure of an interview with the Arthbishop. Froni seeing pictures of hlm wearing such stately gold- braided stuif at the Eucharist Congress lie seerned to be quite teriibly ceremonjous. He would probably corne downstairs heralded by a pair of acolytes. The Irish priest-secretary fussed about Ris Grace and that raised my awesome expectations; until almOst suddenly the Archbishop, hirnseif was ini the long red reception room, bis purple-broidered robe cuhninating in a swish and a smile as he cordially greeted the stranger, flot knowing what upon earth lie had corne to talk about. He drew up a chair very close to mine, and if lie had been anybody but an archbishop lie iniglt have cailed bis man to, fetch cigars or a glass of Frenchi wine. In two moments we were on tenns of affabi]ity. '\u003c No wonder lie is popular,» was the silent comment. He talked witli headlong cordiality and soon plunged into a subject that always makes Bruchesi palpitate with enthusiasm. It was the Churcli; the parish, the priest, the corn- munity of souls under one steepie-and lie drew a picture of it that would, have done credit to the Abbé Samison depicted in Cariyle's Past and.Present. No magtter liow smafl this spiritual comxnuiiity, so long as there was a priest, there was the genius, of the wliole vast system, of the Churcli; no matter how huge, there was the family idea incorporate. So tlie idea of-father. The priest was not merely an incumbent or a parish overseer. He was the head of a family. The Arclibisliop drew a picture of spiritual Montreal; vividly describing the scores upon scores of churcli communities, that stiIl marked the ascendency of two, to one Frenchi Catliolics ini the greatest city of Canada. Now and again the Archbishop's linge carbuncle ring camne very close to, the visitor's knee as lie talked of politics and strikes, education. and temperance\u003e progress",
         "Archbishop Bruchesi and poverty, faith and Churcliunity. His tiue was brief; but he was forgetting that. How did lie know that I was flot a mere Protestant spy? Those 40,000 Jews iii the heart of Montreal-with their synagogues and sweatshops, their political meetings- and their clamour for racial schools-I must rememiber *thiem. Langlois was using those Semitioe against the true Church; against Frenchi Canadians. Those Jews were learning English faster than even the Frenchi in Montreal, ninety per cent. of whom speak some English. Perhaps some rabbi had quarrelled withthe Archbishop who spoke alxnost with animosity against these pushful, modem people, to him far more of a menace than the Chinamen whose chop suey cafés were dotted red by niglit ail over the part of Montreal threaded by St. Lawrence Main. \"But ail they want is national existence,\" suggested the visitor. \" Would you grant that to French Canadians and-'.' Rie interrupted with a peremptory but quite genial gesture. \"'There is a fundarnental difference,\" he said. \" The Frenchi were the forerunners here. The Jews are in-~ novations.\" Somewhat less hostile was IS criticism of the American Federation of Labour. Years ago lie had begun to oppose that, when a delegation from tlie Americali Federation of Labour waited on the then Bishop to, ask why ini bis pulpits there had been preached a sermon against the international brotherliood. Bruchesi told them plainly that labour and wages in Montreal had ndthing to do with New York or Chicago. Labour to him was a national matter. Hie still believed that. I had a great desire to ask him-why Samnuel Gompers had flot as mnucli human riglit to be the elected pope of labour in Amnerica as Leo had to be Pope of Rome. But I rememnbered that lie was the Archbishop. Also, if the Jews li their sweatshops wvent against the labour unions, why was lie so hostile to the Jews? But here 112",
         "Archbishop Bruchesi again lie was the head of the Churcli and should not be accused of inconsistency. No doubt an Archbishop with a passionate motif has a way of looking at public questions not granted to secular optics. But it seemed a trille illogical that lie should have gone out against municipal inefficiency and corruption amnong the French aldermen of Montreal, while lie opposed the free secular educa.tion that would have coxnpelled Frenchmen to compete on even ternis with Anglo-Saxons. The Frenchi Canadians in Quebec are to Archbishop, Bruchesi a separate people. Cities and railways, schools and politics, great industries and wicked operas, strikes and labour unions, may, if they miust, seduce these people into modemn ways. But it is- the business of the clergy to, keep thern intact. The real parish of St. James' is the Nationa]ist party in Quebec. 0f course, somewhat awkwardly, heaven planted a large number of Irish and several thousand'-Italians in Montreal, and these have nothing to do with the Promised Land. The Archbishop is flot sucli a visionaxy as to lose bis hold upon these. One inigit: imagine that lie would be a supporter of John Redxnond as well as of-Henri Bourassa. Ase\u003c him what Frencli-Canadian Nationalisma means and lie knows as clearly as anybcdy. But neyer expect hlmi to utter a %word of disloyalty to the British Empire. He is too adroit, too benevolent. Bruchesi does not believe ini violence. He would, persuade, entice, allure the secular mind; neyer argue it into hostility. [n fact, lie is a Nationalist who miglit appear on any Imperialis- ing platform and a papist who could almost preacli ini a Salvation Arrny temple. Bruchesi is neyer carried away by bis doctrine. He is the master of it, flot the slave. Casuist and apparent reactionary lie may be, an infatuated, bigot.-never. Yet lie is the nationalising fxiend of that brillia.nt derelict Henri Bourassa. How lie manages it nobody knows. It is so fantastic tliat one may be excused for letting tlie imagination mun flot a bit and conceive a dialogue between Brucliesi and Bourassa. Time, even- 113 H9",
         "Archbishop Bruchesi ing of January 8, 1916. Place, the red receptioli room at the palace. Enter Mr. Bourassa; greets the Arch. bishop-in F rench. \" Ah, delighted. Pray be seated. What news?' \"\u003cA recruiting assembly has been broken up. I have just spoken to the ringleaders at my office.\" \"Sh You should not have received them. You are too bold. You wiIl harm the cause. Laurier bas been speaking'against you.\"' \"\"Psh! Lavergne speaks louder than Laurier. My lieutenant bas refused to head a Nationalist regiment to help France and England. In the Quebec Legisiature he bas dared the authorities to arrest him for treason in denouncing Canada's part inx the war.\" \"'He also-is flot a true Nationalist. You are neither of you the French Canadian that you should be.\" Bourassa shifts behind a table which for the moment he uses as a rostruin. He is the bolder because to, hlmn Nationalism is a political dreamn, while to the Arch- bishop it is but a phase of the holy programme of the Church. With bis index linger pointing at Bruchesi he says: \" You are too adroit. You waste time with mnethods.' \"But inx the Church methods are necessary. In the sanctum \"ý-the Archbishop cornes close to the table and leans over it --2 you are much too personal. You do flot wait for occasions; you try to create them.\" Bourassa rises; one atm aloft. \" Listen! There was once an- occasion -which you did flot create-but on which you becamne so enthusiastic that you did the cause of Nationaiism more harm than any of my boldness.\" The Archbisbop steps back. \" Your Grace--that mandement iniio1.\" «'I do not remember-wbich? \" Bourassa repeats from memory the words of that mandement given out by the Archbisbop at the death of Ring Edward the Seventh: \"We recognise inx England the generous and power- 114",
         "Archbishop Bruchesi fui nation under whose flag Providence lias placed us to protect our religion and our sacred liberties; we oppose a formai denial to the foreigner wlio boldly asserts that England oppresses us; we joyfully pro- dlaimn ourselves lier subjects and pray that she may keep lier glorious place amorig the nations of the world, because we believe that God has great designs upon lier, and that we, the Frencli-Canadi:an race, have- ail to suifer if lier prestige is lessened.\"' \u003c' Ah! And wliat of that? \" asks tlie Archbisliop. \"Do you accuse me of inconsistency? »' \"0 f nothingi1\" screams Bourassa. \"But I would ask you-what if the Recruiting League sliould liave that piece of Anglo-Saxon amenity placarded ail over Montreal in flluminated signs witli the signature 'Paul Bruchesi '? The Arclibisliop smiles and rings a bell. \"'Bring 'me the evening paper,\" lie says to the secretary. Thie paper brouglit to His Grace is an issue of Januaxy 8, 1916. Witli a shrewd glinuner in bis eyes lie reads as follows: \" An explanation of tlie attitude of tlie Roman Catliolic Churcl in Quebec i regard to the war was made by Arclibisliop Brucliesi at Laval UJniversity last evening at a meeting in aid of the rnilitary hospital of that institution. '\u003cThe Archbisliop said: 'Canada being a part of tlie British Empire, it is tlie sacred duty of the Canadian people to assist Great Britain in lier lieroic defence of liberty. This was the position taken by the Episcopacy of Frenchi Canada at tlie outbreak of the war, and this is the attitude bisliops still maintain and will continue to maintain to tlie very end. Tlie obligations we owe the British Crown are sacred obligations. \"\"'It is the solemn duty of every Canadian citizen, to the utxnost limit of bis force, to stand side by side witli the motherland in lier lieroic effort to, crusli tlie tyrant who wishes to trample smail nations and States beneath bis ion heel. Wliat fate would be ours if the Germans 115s",
         "Archbishop Bruchesi obtained a foothold here? Were we defeated, Gerrnany Nvould secure -domination on the St. Lawrence!' \"«RaLising himself to bis Mui heîght, Mgr. Bruchesi said: French-Canadian countrymen, 1 for one do not want, to be a German citizen.' *\u003e By the time hie has finished reading, the place where, bis visitor had stood -is vacant. Mr. Bourassa has gone; a wiser editor than when he came. rE6",
         "SIR WILLIAM PETERSON PRINCIP.AL SIR WiLLuA PETEiRSON, C.M.G., reniinds a casual visitor of some rare old tribal ornamnent from a -museum which when rubbed. diligently on the coat- sleeve sparkles into, the memories of other years. The Principal of McGill, though considerable of a prophet and much of a shrewdly, practical man, specialises a good deal on the past tense. He is perpetually moving on the edge of some pbilosophy, or some reemo-yabilia ini the shape of suitable stories and personal reminiscences. One suspects that much of the Principal's interest in life is his genial hobnobbings with these distinguished men. An aggressive managing editor of a Canadian news- paper once sald of a brother editoa- \" If I had that man on my staff I would send him to interview all the crowned heads of Europe.\" Such an assignment would congenially suit Dr. Peter- son, who is a rcpository of personalia gleaned frorn eminent people. One of bis customary hunian hobbies was the late Goldwin Smith, concerning whom. he could tell many a story. Once upon a tume Dr. Peterson travelled with Goldwin Smith to a Princeton reunion where for the fixst tire the Oxford Professor met Grover Cleveland. \"'That was a very amusi-ng episode,\" said the Prin:zal. \"Cleveland shook hands with Goldwin Smith and said, 'T-ave wanted to see you for a long time, six, out of curiosity. \"'1 saw Goldwin Smith wince. He turned to me and said, 'Tell me, did he say curiosity?'. \" Aftexwards Goldwin Smith wrote sometbing about Cleveland in the Farmers Sun; alluding to bun as a genial but quite vulgar sort of person-though he hugely admired Cleveland, who, of course, did flot understand Goldwin Snmith as I did.\" 117",
         "Sir William Peterson Principal Peterson is a beniga crank on the huinanities. It is a wise Professor ini McGifl who does flot depreciate poetry and the classics, of both which Dr. Peterson, C.M.G., is a protagonist. .For a man from Dundee this is hopeful. Very few of enir imported Scotchinen inconvenience theniselves over Milton, Horace, and Homer. When they do we must suspect the Elizabethan influence of Edinburgh. If there is one maxi in Canada capable of inipressing upon a suitable youth the ethical reasons for comamitting to memory Paradise Lost or the Odes of Horace, that mani is Sir William Peterson. It is the ascent of mani to the top spheres that absorbs the Principal of McGilU. Now and then he may get bis mathematical, professors to com- pute the compound interest for the test of McGill's life- time on the eleven millions already invested by Sir William MacDonald i McGill University; but for -information only. No university president in the British or any other empire ever fouxid himself the via media of such colossal benefactions from one maxi to mankind. That subject seizes the visitor the moment he enters the sylvaxi precincts of McGill under the mountain of Montreal. It is impressed upon him, by pile after pile of great grey buildings, put up by modem engineers of architecture axid crammed with the latest equipments of science to match with a mechanical and dynamic age. Axid it is only when at length one reaches the chastely archaic: range of low roofs constituting old McGill of the Dawson era in geology that the fixiancial, fact resolves, itse]f into a mere temporising illusion. Here behind a classic anid modest obstruction of collegiate doors, vestibules, and axite-roorns one ids bimself at last into a stratum of academic atmosphere in which the moving spirit is Principal Sir William Peterson. McGill is the only Canadian nniversity wvith a knight on its facuity. This one--after a leisurely interval of waiting-emerges fromi bis sacrosaxict vestry at the rear and with the informality of a brown tweed suit, grizzled grey haïr, anid a pleasaxitly cynical drawl 118",
         "Sir William Peterson invites you to en-l.ertain yourself by asIing him questions. No man in Canada lias better mastered the art of atmospheric conversation with a genia]ly oracular turn. We understand at once that there are mnany questions which an average wayfaring man, thougli fool, niight ask the Principal and be sure of getting a higli percentage of hu-manised wisdom ini the answers. But you do flot begin by discussing the eleven millions. That is a mere episodic epilogue. McGill is the real play, and the play's the thing. McGill of to-day is Principal Peterson's Opus I., the work of twenty-one years of bis 111e since 1895 when, as the choice of Lord Strathcona, Chancellor of McGiII, hie came fromn Dundcz to, succeed the lainented Sir William Dawson wlio correlated religion and rocks. In that rear room I suppose Dawson delved mucli into the Laurentian system. that bulges up over the college roof. The day I was admitted to the ante-room for con- versation with Dr. Peterson, a railway inining corps were blasting a twc-milé tunnel through the sacred mountain of Montreal. That cloisterish littie rear room unites the old Dawsonian McGill with the modemn university. In- cidentally that involves the Empire, whicli without Dr. Peterson would lie minus one of its most ardent vindicators. Culture, engineering, autonomy all become a sort of academic triangle with the Principal as tbe intersecting point of three straiglit limes drawn from each bisected side to another. There is no embargo on culturising speech. Dr. Peterson prefers not to become colloquial. He turas sidling to the visitor, props bis head upon one band, gazes abstractedly at some invisible point, and proceeds to expound. He intends to lie formai and academic. He becomes talkative. The decadence of linguistics was the burden of a genial lament. «'Language study is basic,\" lie insisted. \" Things first, signs second, may lie very well in elementary scliools. But the languages are the great conservatories. America -1 know it-poohpoohs linguistics. Well, we needn't liq",
         "Sir William Peterson restrict it to, Latin-thougli to be sure without that it's bard to define a student's progress. But let us have men about us able to use their own tongue efficiently and as far as possible elegantly. Too many college graduates are-no, I won't say illiterate-but unlettered. They don't study language enough.\" \"What-of English poetry?\" \" rAh! \" He was touched. This is almost a fighting point with the Principal. \u003c'I have beÉn trying to foster the study of English poetry in the schools of Canada. It is a treasure-house of culture.\" There was a bit of an over-brow about this. But it was by no means cynical. It was Edinbuxgh that was spealdng. «\"Oh, we have something yet in academics to learn froin the oldland,\" fié went on. \" For instance, Scotland began to abolish the college freshman, the first-year mian, twenty years ago. 1 see Ontario is trying to, do it now. 1 suppose that in some departments, of college work America has set us the pace. But flot in the hunianities. No! The age is too materia]istic. Young men leave college imbued with mergerism, desire for consolidations, sudden wealth-aIl partial development.\" With ainazing ease the Principal cognated biniseif and the University to the rest of the English-speaking world. As he talked a fructifying idea was born. It was the psychology of imnperiumn et collegi-um. What is a modern university but the concretion of science, thought, culture, languages--cvilisation? And what else lu the naine of analogy is the British Empire? McGill, under a powerful psychic magnifier, would have been the Empire-as Oxford, Cambridge-did one hear hum suggest a]so Toronto? Perhaps not. There is, one gathers, some rather rabi.inical tolerance at McGill for the status and function of the University lu Queen's Park. We dismiss the registrar's ]ists or the bursar's ledger as being mere accessories. Students gravitate to both by thousands per annuin somewhat magniflcently regardless of geography. lu both there is the saie problem. of juvenile philistinism contrary to traditional 120",
         "Sir William Peterson culture; .in each the hopeful mustering of \" hoi polloi \" into -ultiniate intellectual democracy. None but a cynical materialist could make odjous comparisons yet more odious between these two great colleges- particularly in the matter of either revenues or rugby. Only a superficial thinker could trace any variation in degrees of culture. Learning has equitably adorned and illuminated botb, and eacl- lias accumulated its com- forting store of digni:fied traditions-with bats off pro- foundly to Oxford and a bit of a tilt of the monocle to Chicago. The spirit and active intention of each of these colleges, as of Queen's or even the new colleges in the far West, is ail the most ardent Harold Begbie would have wished with respect to spending a college to carry on the war. In neither is there traceable the feeblest symptoni of schism or seditioïi towards the Crown and Imperium of England. No, if ail of Canada were as full of empire-enthusiasma as its great colleges-not alto- gether excepting Laval-we should bave fewer mis- givings about the problenis that await this country ini the settiement atter tbe war. The intellect-comniunities headed by Principals Peterson anid Falconer are a unit ini the business of Empire. The story of each could be enthusiastically toid by the partisans of the other. What one gathers froni a ta]k in the ante-rooni of MeGil is rather a matter of humour and temperaniental expression. Sir Williamn Peterson enunciates. the rela- tion between collegium et imperium. Years before the war lie was agitated about the German menace witbout respect to German culture. He could, in imagination, see German warslups up the St. Lawrence, unless- In fact he spoke of this. He said nothing about \"kultur.\" That had not yet been defined. The pro- fessors of Germany had flot yet spoken. 1 doubt if the Principal bad any disquieting apprebensions about this. He was flot poained over the intellectual diagnosis of Germany as he is now. He was politically interested. Ife was on the platform. At any given znoment-unless the 'wizened ixnperative figure of Sir Wiliam Macdonald had been coming up the walk-be could have lawnched 112]C",
         "Sir Willfiam Peterson into an oration on the Empire. The faculty and the students might: go on a picnic if they wished while the Principal cogitated in continents. There was an abandon about the Principal. Hie was cunnilatively roused. Odi Profanum vulgus et arceo. was no longer a motto over the door. Hie wekbomed the crowd. Hie feit bigger than the cloister. Hie translated his enthusiasm into words. Which one fancies would. seldom, or neyer be noted at the head offices of the University of Toronto, or Queen's. McGills relation -to the Empire was capable of formai expression. In Toronto--a shrug might have done as well. Yet Principal Peterson somewhat chuckled, that he implicity understood the late Goldwin Smith, with whom. he had junketed considerably, not least among university gatherings '1h the United States. Any Uni- versity Principal who can make room inbis cognisance for the British Empire and the Sage of the Grange who used to be the enigma of Toronto, is broad. enough in bis outlook te correlate anything. 222",
         "----w--- WALTER ALLWARD CAPE, DiAMOND is a mountain of national sarcasm. In ail America there is no such a site for a great poetic symbolism in sculpture. That bold promrontory tbrust- ing out in front of the old citadel and the historie Plan of Abraham is the one place in Canada designed by nature ini collusion with history for a national monument greater than the Statue of Liberty. But the field where Wolfe and Montcalm fought for the mastery of a new world is flot in oui day, at lat to become a rnemorial of struggle and conquest. The National Battlefields Commission may pass resolutions and ask Parliainents for money-wbich they wMl not, easily get, for there is an impediment; and it is -the suspicion that Frencli-Canadian Nationalists would object on behaif of the French-Canadian people to see any Iasting reminder of 1759, when the fiag of the three crosses triumphed over the fleur-de-is. And what has that to do with Walter Allward, R.C.A.? No more perhaps than it might have to do with Philippe Hlebert, R.C.A. But suppose the Battlefields Commis- sion had decided to erýcct a bi-racial, national memaorial on Cape Diaminnd, wliat a delicate -diplomatie taskj they must have had to award -che contract for its erection. To whom would it naturally be given; to the repre- sentative of the British Conqueror or to the embodiment Olt the Frencli-Canadian delegate in art? To Waiter Allward of Toronto or to Philippe Hebert of Montreal? Would there have been a compromise and a collabora- tion-Allward doing the shaft and the vwi-mged figure on the apex, and Hebert woring out the figures at the base? Or would the Commission have dodged the issue by asking for sketch models from, the United States? .T23",
         "Walter Allward Sculpture is the only form of art in Canada that radically represents the cleavage between the two root races of the country. The two languages are equally officiai, in Parliament. It was an Irish-Canadian who made fainous Johnnie Courteau and Leetie Bateese. French-Canadian musiciang fraternise to some extent with the music-makers of British Ontario and they both work together for some degree of conimon welfare in Montreai. Ontario artists paint ireely i Quebec- though it must be adniitted that the compliment is not so habitually returned. But nobody ever heard of Walter Allward getting a commission to do a French- Canadian monument; and Hebert would need to sub- due his somewhat hyperdramatic style if lie were asked to do such a monument as that to John Sandfield Macdonald in Queen's Park, Toronto. LateIy, however, both these originating scuiptors have been engaged i doing niemorials to, King Edward VIL. One wi stand in Ottawa, the other in Montreal. And they will )robably be as different, even on tis peace- making subject, as Allward's South African memorial i Toronto differs from Hebert's draniatic monument to the saine event in Windsor Square, Montreal. Walter Allward began to leam bis art in a Toronto brickyard. Later, when a student i an architect's office, he was first perniitted to realise what it meant to get architectural proportions into a monument. There was a time when he might, have gone into painting, for which he has stili a lingering passion-yet neyer paints. He will neyer paint. Habit has made this undenionstra- tive man prefer the modelled figure and the wax, the plaster-cast and the bronze figure on a pedestal. Though he is stili a young man lie has to bis credit a large number of British-Canadian subjects i various parts of Canada, mainly in Toronto. XV.o else would have laboured to, execute sucli a frock-coated conventionality as the Sandfield Macdonald monument i Queen's Park, or the Queen Victoria even more prosaice? Who else i a contrary style could so splendidly have compressed the warlike and iinperial conceptions of Canadian life ito",
         "Walter Allward so fine a piece of work as the South African Memorial? Up in a littie old graveyard on a bill north of Toronto there is a shaft, Grecian in contour, subtie in lime, a simple, serene piece of modesty that might neyer be noticed by the average browser *arnong rustic tomb- stones. It is the shaft desîgned by Allward to com- memorate, in a quiet personal way, the life of bis friend Boultbee; and he did it with consummate subtlety that has no need of a crowd. Whether in the simple shaft\u003e the fussy, frock-coated Victorian politician, or the superb, sweeping lineainents of the great South African Memorial, Allward is inexor- ably bimself; the patient, intellectually imaginative workmnan, evolving bis subject with alnost unscrupulous regard for historic accuracy. He catches the spirit of the age.-not of bis own but of whatever age he sets out to depict. He would do a statue of a king cave-man brandishing a stone axe with as much punctillous care ffor the atmosphere of that period as he is now doing the mammoth Bell Memorial intended to commemorate the evolution of the telephonie age. Was he ever tempted by the passion of youth to trans- fix some blazing emotion ini a figure or a face? If so he has powerfully resisted. There is to hlm no winged Pegasus. AlIçvard has a sculptural conscience. The ethical sîde of bis art is a perpetual restraint. lie will n-ot over- express lilmself by exaggerating amy quality in bis sub- ject. Flamboyancy he abhors. If he were asked to do a thing suitable for an Arc de Triomphe bis design might pass the committee but would probably not be accepted by a Paris crowd. Yet it would cont ain every essential of a fine historic memorial--except the flamboyancy. The idea of the fiag neyer attracts hlm. H1e revels in details-that he may leave most of them out. He had rather suggest than express, or express by suggestion. Day by day, week by week, month by month, working with wax in that top-lighted lofty studio of bis, Allward asks himself what is the mission of a sculptor in a com- mercial age, and hiniseif furnishes the answer. From 125",
         "Walter Allward sketch to sketch model, from that to haif size with something of detail; on again to life size and the use of living models, and then to the huge skeieton of wood and chicken-netting for monument size, he creates bis critical, inspiring verity which after several more moons wiil be a plaster-cast ready for the bronze founders. Patience. There are many things to consider as the assistant works away with the pointing machine in- vented by Ailward for indicating on the skeleton the details of the life-size figure. This life size is the sculptor's approximate last word. The rest is replication on a larger scale\u003e investing that cadaver of crude wood and chicken netting with wax lineaments. And to a scuiptor with a great craf t and easy conscience that would be ail. This mani with the comprehensive name-Ail-ward- realises a tout ensemble, of a various ind. There is the committee of award--oh, the committee! usually coin- posed of politicians, town councillors, and howling patriots. There is the general conception supposed to please that committee and must therefore be a com- promise. There is the price which takes no account of love's labour lost li endless details produced and after- wards suppressed for the sake of suggestive simplicity. There is the difficulty of models in a Young commercial country. There is the architectural design-and Ailward spent part of bis apprenticeship to an architect. There is the site and the environment, involving the îoutlook of the landscape artist. There is the general setting of wa]ks, fiower plots, lawns, and driveways-usually botched by the civic gardener. There is the unveiling and the speecbmaking nightmare and the crowd. After- wards the crowd may pass along and neyer notice the monument except when a regiment marches past or the base is occupied variously by a squad of signallers, stacks of khaki overcoats or a gailery of spectators to watch the procession. Ailward is flot always patient. But he is always creatively constructive. Ris finest optimism, is not in biniseif but in bis work. Stiil a young man, he has a big and rnaybe an inspiring programme ahead of hum 126",
         "Walter Allward ini this country. Some of the things he bas done are as good as any he can ever do. He bas done them ini the fine flush of ecstasy, rigidly harnessed to a purpose; ecstasy that neyer breaks loose ini one figure or one pose or any casual exaggeration, but works itself caimly and serenely into the general conception of the piece. Con- sidering Allward and his best because most comprehen- âive work, one is reminded of a stanza in Keats' Ode to a Gyrecian Urn : \"Who are these coming to the sacrificq? To what green altar, O mysterious priest, Lead'st thon that heifer, Iowing at the skies, And ail lier silken flanks 'with garlands drest? What littie town by river or seashore, Or inountain built with peaceful citadel Is emptied of its folk this pions morn? And, littie town, thy streets for evermore Will sulent be; and flot a sont to tell Why thon art desolate will e'er retnrn.\" Those lines are somehow the invisible motto on the walls of Allward's workshop. They are the sweetly sad sentiment that pervades the work of him whose busi- ness is to perpetuate the past thing, or the event, or the man that is regretfully gone to point it hopefully to the future. In a country of tremendous geography, sparse population, and foot-frontage crazes, this is sometixnes a much more pensive business than even its own character creates. Allward's greatest completed work up to the present was finished and unveiled. in the national hubbub of expansion when the average man was more screamingly enthusiastic over a new skyscraper-so-called-and. had no eyes for a monument a hundred feet higli dominating the foot of a fine avenue on the edge of a populous and somewhat dingy retail shop street. The South African Memorial was unveiled to a large crowd among whom the scuiptor sat head-bent as nearly out of sight as possible wishing the fanfare were over. One Canadian city, whose eminent characteristics are Orange walks",
         "Walter Allward and village enthusiasm, had that day a new landmark; a work of art that for architectural design, impressîve proportions, inspirintg figures, masterly balance of detail and of mass, and a national significance based upon Canada's part in what was then a great Empire war, was to, stand as an inspiration to, posterity. After a long while the civic gardener got a lawn and flower-pots and walks laid out in front of it. The pass- ing crowd might sit for a moment at the base and gaze at the modeiled figures of fine Canadlian manhood. The sidewallc cynic might get a glimpse of the winged peace figure at the apex, superbly modelled ini woman's limes that the fiowing draperies did mot conceal, and balancing the splendid national Madonna at the base flanked by the young soldiers-on to, victory. Then carne the GreatWar; when the great monument was the rendezvous of drilhig and marching troops, day by day\u003e month by month, and year by year, the shouts of drill sergeants and the shuffie of boots. No spot in al Canada was the centre of so much warlike and natioLlal activity as this Allward monument. Presently the re- cruiting league comceived the happy idea of erecting a sign-paimter's hoarding fair in front of the monument, blocking out most of the base figures and substituting a bad big hand on a huge ugly -sword. The memorial was now complete. The scuiptor had missed the point. Those Nvho formerly had passed the monument by and might neyer have motîced that it was mot there-if sucli a thing miglit be-were nom'., -m- pelled to observe it because of the recruiting sign. The crowds sat on the steps of the monument to watch the soldiers, and the Duke. The soldiers stacked their great- coats on the base. The signalling officer stood on the top step to flick out the Morse code to his squad up the avenue. The memorial had found a practical use.. In becoming a conimomplace utility it had become also a recognised fact. The author of that memnorial need neyer repent its misuse. It can neyer be overlooked. Its mission cari neyer be perverted. There are great pictures blinking 128",
         "Walter Allward away in the monastic gloom of art galleries that would be glad of any such public cotnmon gallery as the place of this, monument. And the mnan who created it may be sure that a country which is, coming through the crucible of the Great War will have greater need of him when the war is done than it ever had ini its heyday cf commercial expansion 'whose monuments were sky- scrapers and railway offices. 3129",
         "SIR JOHN EATON EvEN in Canada it is sometimes necessary for a man to, be recognised as the son of bis father. After that fact is duly acknowledged, he rnay be allowed to, speak for bimself. Sir John Raton bas neyer permitted the public to forget that lie is the son of Tixnothy Raton, an Irishman and a Methodist who about tbirty years ago began to keep a general store in Toronto. Ris own son will flot be Iikely to inake liglit of bis grandfather. The organising Methodist baud of that Irish commercial genius will be feit iu the Raton business until department stores corne under governinent ownersbip. Nobody will ever be able to say how mucli of the Eaton success is due to, the Methodist Church of wbich the Raton f amily have always been conspicuous pillars. John Raton was brought up under the wing of Trinity Methodist Churcli on Bloor Street, the pastor of wbich always had a careful eye to the Eaton pew. Afterwards the family sbifted its allegiauce to, St. Paul's on Avenue Road. It is now impeccably domiciled lu a churcli bufit iu memory of Tixnothy Raton, as sucli deeded to the Methodist Church lu Canada, with a pulpit flot entirely subject to the wbinis of stationing committees. To the youtbful imagination there is enough of the fabulous about the business headed by.Sfr John Raton to make a fascinating volume about equally compounded of a Henty book for boys, a fantasy of jules Verne, and Alice in Wonderland. For instance, lu this greatest of ail Canadian department stores and perhaps the third greatest ini the world, in order to get two buildings under the saine roof part oi two Toronto streets was used for the pmrpose. To get from, the main store to the fur- niture building, you maice a detour from the basement '31",
         "Sir John Eaton out past the boiler-room into a long and illuniinated tunnel. If the same tunnel system. were extended another direction, it would Iead up into the mail order building north of the store; in a mean average of the two direc- tions one block furtlier into thie great factory that looks down upon the tower of Holy Trinity Churcli with as mucli nonchalance as the sky-scrapers of Wall Street regard the old spire-of old Trixiity ini New «York. Owing to the. fact that municipal governinent is one of the few tbings that cannot be bought at Eaton's, it lias not yet been found necessary to tunnel under the City H{all which occupies the adjacent block. And if the tunnel idea were to be carried out tc, completion in order to get the Eaton system ail under one roof, we should need a sap eastwaxd 333 miles long tu connect with the factory ini Montreal, and the heail factory in the town of Oshawa west of Toronto. Another would have to be excavated westward a tlousand miles to join up witli the great store in Winnipeg, which a few yzars ago changed the current of retail traffic from Main Street to Portage Avenue. It is some years now since the first wireless station in Toronto was- placed on top of the Eaton store; and so, far as can be learned, the chief purpose of that was to, lceep Sir John Eaton, wherever lie niiglt liappen to be on 123 yacht Floreiux, in communication with bis busi- ness, as James Gordon Bennett, wlierever lie may happen to be in the world, keeps in toucli witli tlie New York Herald. At any moment of any common day, Sir John Eaton may step from bis office into, the midst of more people than are carried daily by ail the passenger trains on ail the railways of Canada. These people are constantly travelling up the elevators, the siaircases, and the escalades of the Eaton store, from that into the street cars, of which seven lines stop at the doors of Eaton's along two main streets. Tliey are more or less in the grip of a systema of distribution that by means of hundreds of liorses and scores of znotor-rigs every day weaves a web of traffic with that ugly great store as a centre. Ail Canadian railways and ocean steamsbip limes converge at that store, bringing in argosies of goods",
         "Sir Johin Faton from ail quarters of the earth, sending them. out again in mail packets. In one day of Christmas week more people go through the Eaton building, of which the nerve centre is the office of Sir John Raton, than the popula- tion of any city in Canada outside of Montreal, Toronto, and Winnipeg. Every sout of that restless consuming population knows that so, long as he is inside the Raton store and has the sufficiency of cash, he can get ahnost anything he needs for earthly use fromn the Eaton coin- pany--except tobacco, automobiles, and tqmbstones. Most of the people wlio go there know that ail the year round in normal times the Raton systemi employs fromn 20,000 to 25,000 people. Any lad with a mathe- maticj1 head may figure out how mucli money is paid by fair wages every year to this armay of employees; the yearly cost of operating the Raton business by adding the upkeep of so many hoises, boilers, and elevators, trucks and delivery rigs; the price of stationery and office supplies and wear and tear on store furniture; the amount paid for interest or the value of rent charges; the total cost of all raw niaterials used in Raton manu- factuxing; the price of railway z'nd steamnship tickets for Raton buyers; the amount spent on advertising in a large num-ber of newspapers--and as znany more things as his youthful imagination miglit suggest. Having done this, lie niight add the amount that Sir Jôhn Raton gives away to philanthropies in an average year, wliat he spends on kis house and his various ineans of living, what it cost originally to build and annua]ly to maintain the palace-like Raton Memorial Cliurch, and other public enterprises bearing the naine of Eaton. If by this time the said boy does not begin to feel like Aice ln Wonderland wlth a headache, lie înay exercise kis mathematical, genius in deducing from ail this jules Verne mass of aggregates and averages, by a fair percentage of profits, what must be the nuznber of million dollars represented by the annual turnover of the Eaton business. And when lie lias plunged hiniseif into a bewildering mass of millions, he will probably wake up and discover that it is aIl a dreazu. The capitalisation '133",
         "Sir John Eaton and the annual turnover of the greatest inerchandise system lrL Canada have neyer been made known. The public do not care to know, more than they hanker for the details of the life of Shakespeare or the family conversations in the Garden of Eden. Ail that the people care to know is that they can buy most of the neces- saries and luxuries of life-from a package of nasturtium. seeds to, the complete outfitting and fumishing of a modem house-at Eaton\u003es, and that the mean average cost of such things is not exhibiting as much tempera- ment as the stock market or the grocery store around the corner. They desire to maintain the c!d. belief, whose foundations were laid years ago, that thre Ea±on buying machine is one of the most perfect in the world, that the selling and distributing mechanism is as con- siummate as human invention cati malce it, and tbat the personal emoluinents of members of the firm are flot a subject for royal commissions or the courts. ]Eeing eternally satisfied on these cardinal points, the pu.blic asks no idle questions regarding millions in stock or ini turnover; because in the growth of the Eaton businefs\u003e the weiare and the psychology of the people who brny have always been the first considerations. In the days of Timothy Eaton, the founder, there used to be much talk about the head of the business. The life of ihat mat. has neyer been written. As the story of a great merchant gifted with a genius for organisation, the study of men, and -che knack of a great politician in finding ont the whinis and the caprices of people i general, it should be worth telling. And it wiIl probably neyer be printed, because it is being told day by day i the development of the business of which Sir John Eaton is the head. The Eaton firin is the book of Timothy Eaton-and of those he left to corne after him. Axnong these, publicly, the most important is Sir John, who knows better than any one else the value of the men who are not in the public eye but who, sit with hlm at board meetings; the value of men who are at the heads of departments and neyer see the board room; the value of ernployees who 'with a proverbial",
         "Sir John Eaton loyalty to the wliole interest of the Eaton Company are constantly evolving new ways and mieans of better- ing the great service machine that lias become alinost as mucli cormmon property as the C.P.R. Concerning the popular, well-set-up figure wliom people are accustomed to seeing either ini khaki or mufti, often ini compazy with a cigar, in the cabin of bis yacht Florence, now at the service of the Adnïiralty, in bis private car wbizzing out to Winnipeg, at the wheel of one of bis many automobiles, there is a deal of animated democratic interest. Since he became head of the systemn, Sir John Eaton's name bas been much in the newspapers. Most of the publicity has to do with donations of nxoney by hundreds of tliousands to hospitals, colleges, the «Y.M.C.A., machine-gun batteries, and other concerns of both peace and war. Detached from bis business, Sir John is as genially pleasing to people in churcli, in society, in music, in moral move- ments, in sport, as bis father was mysteriously aloof. Few people ever cauglit sight of Timothy Eaton except at churcli. Most people in Toronto know the face of Sir John. When at the age of tbirty-tbree J. C. Eaton found himself squirming into a large pair of boots as successor to his father, he feit hiniseif saddled with -a curious psychological responsibility. He lias neyer escaped it; and he neyer will The paradox of it is, that the father, wlio liad so many profoundly interesting peculiarities, concealed most of them, from. the public that lie miglit fuse tliem. in the business. Sir John, who, inherited mucli irom. both bis father and a temperamental mother, lias found it necessary to make bis own personality more of a public property. in bis day there is a senti- mental sie to the business such as the people at large did not observe ini the days of bis father. Wlien lie bec-ame president lie knew that the people .were speculat- ing on how lie would measure up to the responsibihLy. He undertook to let them know. In that nine years, rnarked by a tremendous evolution of the system, flot least of which is the Winnipeg establishment and the 135",
         "Sir John Eaton increase of business to gigantic proportions, perhaps un- dreamed of in so short a period even by bis father, the social and sentimental side of the Eaton corporation has become one of its most obvious assets. This development must be credited li large measure to Sir John, wlao does not credit biniseif with the genius necessary to organise sucli a business, and bas mucli of bis father's astute faitli i the brains of other men. There are those who look on Sir John as the gMiing star of the system; others wlio wiIl prophetically allege that lie is a palpable mediocrity wliose chief value to, the business and the comxnnnity of which it lias become s0 tremendous a factor is tbat lie is the son of bis father and to ail intents and piuposes a fine sociable type of democratic bonhomie. The trutli lies somewliere between these extremes. If Sir John were to the genius of the Baton system wbat bis father was, lie would probably have become a failure. The pelsonality of bis father is invested in the business. Sir John was wise enougli to let it work. If lie were a mere amiable mediocrity, tbe personal forces left li the business by bis autocratic father would bave made hlm more troubles by this time than f ail to the lot of xnost political leaders. It mnust be granted tbat Sir John lias the qualities of a leader as bis father bad those of a great organiser. lI the modemn way of business, leadership is sometimes more important than the organisation of an autocrat. Sir John knows bow important it is. H, lias al -the savoir faire of a man wlio makes it a busmness to under- stand other people. Hie bas the popular, if somewbat obvions, interest li cliarities, liospitals, music, art, soldiering, and sport that makes it easy for most of the people te understand hlm. And Sir John Eaton is botb wifling and anxious to be understood. If lie spends mucli of bis time and energy in things outside of the business, it must be remembered tbat lie flrst of al knew the business li which lie grew up practically as an operator. iEaving learned that, witliout the advantages or disadvantages of a university education, lie was 136",
         "Sir John Eaton shrewd enough to know that there were other men who knew parts of it better than he ever could. He had too much respect for the system to meddle with it for the purpose of showing his authority. He has too apt an appreciation of the value of sentiment to neglect the obviously public side. As the personal link between public interest and business system Sir John is invaluable. He has de- veloped public interest itself into a system. Under his leadership the business, more of a system even than it was in the days of his father, has become a vast public concern whose whims and caprices are as popularly interesting as those of a President or a Premier. When- ever gossip mysteriously surmises that the Eaton store will one day move half a mile north and leave the mid- city block with its tunnels and machinery of business for a great public square, the people do not believe it, but they say, \" Oh, well, if Eaton's move, the whole retail traffic must move with them.\" At present Eaton's are in no danger of moving. Once a year Santa Claus, a month before Christmas, makes his advent to Canada by way of Eaton's. He is officially received by Sir John, and until Christmas Eve is sup- posed to take up his quarters in the store. This is one of the fictions that have done so much to make the Eaton business what it is. The whole story of the business is a series of fictions based upon rigid, uncompromising facts. So it must remain. And of all men in Canada there is no man who believes more profoundly in a fiction based upon unalterable facts than Sir John Eaton, Irish- Canadian, Methodist, student of public affairs, master of practical bonhomie-and the possessor of enough secrets to make a book of business romance as interesting to the lad thumbing an Eaton text-book at school as to the grandmother sitting in an Eaton chair on an Eaton carpet by a fireside piobably built by Eaton's.",
         "DR. A. S. VOGT 'MOST American cities of 500,000 population work out their ideas of civilisation without reference to Beethoven's Choral Symphony, the Deutsche Requiem of Brahms, or Bach's Mass in B Minor. So long as the tax rate fails conveniently near twenty mills on the dollar, most cities of this class take no0 interest in any such work as the Verdi Requiem, the Children's Crusade, by Gabriel Pierne, or the rmusic of the Church Russian by Tchaikowsky, Rachmaninoff, and Gretchaninoif. Prosperous cities can be built up without such musical luxuries. And when any city of 200,000 or more evolves any permanent musical organisation that gives the rate- payers the music of the great masters, the accepted mediumn of expression is the symphony orchestra. Very few communities under the half-million population ev'er dreara of building up a great choral organism that undertakes to be to choral mnusic of ail nationalities what a great sympho-ny orchestra is to music for many instruments. Toronto, the uncosmopolitan capital of the Pro- testant Province of Ontario, has the distinction of being the only city ini the world under a million inhabitants that has developed a great choral society instead of a symphony orchestra. The people of that city, who, until twenty years ago, were brought Up 0on sacred music and pipe organs with now and then a stray opera or a visiting orchestra, have established a clientele who take a keen personal interest in the choral works of the great mnasters outside of Handel, Haydn, and.Mendelssohn. Visitors regularly corne to, that city from New York, Boston, Chicago, and other American centres to hear these works performed by what is conceded by many American critics to be the fwiest choral body ini the world. The man who evolved this musical fact is a Canadian 1139",
         "Dr. A. S. Vogt by birth, British-Canadian in sentiment, and of Germnan descent. Rie is a quiet, persistent, inexorable chorus- master\u003e who developed a remarkable instrument of dramatie and emotional expression out of a church choir. For years a church organist, he made a vitalis- ing hobby of choral miusic. After a dozen years of un- compromisig artistry ini various forms of that kind oi work,. he took his choir to New York,. Chicago, and Boston. The critics of these culturising centres unani- mously joined in a chorus of enthusiasm. In 1912 Vogt took bis family on a pilgrixnage over ail Europe. On that remarkable tour he pried into, the musical secrets of every country and capital from the Thaines to the Neya, the Dlanube, and the Tîber. Hie came. back knowing more about Europeah orchestras, choruses, bands, organs, and mnastergesang-veretnen than any other inusician in America-even to, the fringes of Finland, the country of Sibelius. A year before the outbreak of war Canadian financiers had7agreed to send Vogt's choir to Europe-Bngland, France, Germany-for a choral pilgrimage. This was to have been in June 1915 ; at which tizue choral societies were flot travelling to Paris and Berlin, and London was more concemned over Zeppelins than over visiting choirs. Two of the works arranged for these itinerant pro- grammes were Beethoven's Choral Symnphony and the Brahms Deutsche Requiem. Berlin would have got a sensation. The Kaiser himself miglit have been present. He had previously quarrelled with an opera conductor, who, for several semsons conducted the Pittsburgh Orchestra with the Mendelssohn Choir. There was talk of giving a concert in Essen. Herr Krupp von Buelow maight have escorted the choristers-blindfold-through the Krupp works. The Kaiser might have written a letter to, Sieg.fried Ochs, the chief chorus-master of Gerrnany, to ask, \u003c'Why can't we get that Canadian Vogt to organise a choral societv i Berlin? \" And the chroniclers would have remembered that when Augustus Stephen Vogt was a young student in Germany just after Wilhehn II. became German Emperor, he got the 140",
         "Dr. A. S. Vogt root id-ea of his choral art from listening to the Dom Choir of Berlin and the choir of the St. Thomas Kirche in Leipsic. It is worth while to discover how Vogt built up this famous choir in a country that on an average is less musical than any of the great countries of Europe. Canada spends more money on m'usic Per capita than most countries. Foreign artists are taken in exchange for Canadian artists sent abroad. The country has just got over its parochial measies in music and ig ready for the cosmopolitan mmps. At the current rate of ex- penditure on teacbing, solo artists, choral music, orchestra and chamber music, church choirs, pipe organs, pianos, musical literature, and the rest, the country wiIl some day emerge from the commercial stage, when music is judged by what it costs, into the art stage, when no matter if it costs nothing people must have it because it is as natural as breatbing. Vogt was born in a place too obscure to be marked on any but a township map; Washington, near Elmira, county of Oxford, right on the far end of the German settiement of Waterloo county, Ontario. Ris father was a builder of under-sized, pipe organs. As a boy he played in a Lutheran church; as a youth of seventeen he found himself in Boston studying music. At that tiine there were no musical conservatories i Canada. Wihile he was about voting age he came back to, bis native pro- vince, a trifle Americanised in point of view. Ris first post was the organ and choir of a Methodist church in St. Thomas,.Ontario, a railway town without a decent choir. His salaxy was about $300 a year and he took pupils; as a side lime teaching any sort of music called for. i a ladies' college. With what money he thriftily eked out i St. Thomas he went to Germany. There he was ainong the first Canadian colony in Leipsic, then the musical hub of Germany. Vogt was an open-eyed. traveller with a news- paperman's faculty for co-ordinating bis impressions. Saturday afternoons, in the cold air of the St. Thomas Kirche, found, him a regular listener to, the beautiful 141 CP",
         "Dr. A. S. Vogt unaccompanied singing of the choir. His critical faculty' made hlm conscious of the subtie colourings of this style of music. When lie lef t Leipsic to return to Canz da he had formed one clear ambition-to reproduce some such music with a Canadian church choir. It was while he was on board ship that the music comxnittee -of the leading Baptist church in Canada engaged hlm as organist and choir master. A few Sundays after hie began his duties hie gave, the congrega- tion a foretaste of the. choral discipline that would be the vogue in that church by startling them out of a slipshod habit of ornitting the last beat on the end bar of each Une of the hymn \" Abide with Me.\" The innova- tion was simple. But it was radical. That congregation and choir must flot be permitted, to sing according to, habit or humour. Vogt soon introduced a new form of music, the un- accompanied hyinns and anthemis by the choir such as he had heard in the St. Thomas Kiche in Leipsic. This form of devotional art reached a high pitch of expres- sional beauty in that church. It becarne a ind of interpretation, and it was the cause of many a fascinat- ing, gruelling rehearsal, for the sake of satisfying the acute tone-sensibility of the disciplinarian on the organ bench. Many a young worshipper endured the stately but tedious sermions of that church in order to hear the exquisite unaccompanied anthem that followed them. Many a chorister tried to get into the choir who was forced to wait for a vacarncy. It was this famous a capp5ella music that became the basis and inspiration of the Mendelssohn Choir which Vogt, cautiously and niodestly, organised i the autun Of 1894, the year of the Massey Hall inauguration. The chorus thus assembled contained but 75 voices, in sharp contrast to the Philharmonic Society of that period, which numbered always at Ieast. .30. In this chorus were ail the niembers of bis church choir, ex-members of the Hasiain Vocal Society, and a few others. The naine Mendelssohn was adopted with- out foresight, because it was the intention to produce 1142",
         "Dr. A. S. Vogt every year one 'work of that composer whose psalm settings were particularly obvious for unaccompanied singing. The first programmlfe contained a Mendelssohn psahin and a number of madrigals,-glees, and other con- ventional things. There was an assisting artist at the piano. The critics decided that here was sometbing ne*, flot only in the choral effects, but in the style of Vogt's conducting, wbich in those days was somewhat of the Swedish gymnastic variety. For three seasons, two concerts a year, always with some solo artist, with programmes on ail sorts of coloured paper, with growing crowds and cheap seats, and a somewhat enlarged chorus that performed as rigidly as a regiment drills, the Mendelssohn Choir, organised as a democracy, grew ini public favour. Then suddenly it stopped. The public heaved a sigh. The Mendelssohn Choir was apparently defunct. And the reason was that Vogt discovered the limitations of a choral democracy. In i899 the choir was reorganised on a personal Vogt basis, and entered a second stage of novelty. As yet no choral society iu Canada had imported a foreign orchestra. Torrington had frequently engaged Gilmore's Band to assist bis Philharmonic, for which he had a regular local orchestra. Vogt decided to engage the Pittsburgh Orchestra, then under the baton of Victor Herbert. Unaccompanied singing was no longer the whole choral programme. Vogt knew that lie had a chorus capable of bigger things; aud the musical literature of Europe was full of master works which he desired to produce. CQ:.er choral societies had kept to the old lines of oratorio, English glees, madrigals, motets, and Rart songs. Vogt had a hunger to rausack the music Jterature of continental Europe; and the assisting symphony orchesqtra was one way to do it..- Prom studying shrewclly the worksý: sud the ways of other men, Vogt came to, the point where lie studied his own choir. In that chorus, drilled. to regimental. precision of technique, he discovered things new and strange. Some day lie miglit get that technicised organ- 143",
         "Dr. A. S. Vogt ism to do soxnething really dramatic in expression. Hie had been criticised for too much mere technique. Dili' gently he kept bis ears open for opinions-some of which lie used. Mlore vigilantly he observed the dynarnics of bis choir. There were tinmes when he found fault with the chorus and had them repeat a passage for the sheer pleasure it gave hlm to hive it repeated. Hie polished the pianissimos tilt they became mere 'ghosts of tone that shuddered up from nowhere. lie buttressed up bis élimaxes til they became like the blows of the han'uer of Thor. Hie began to take liberties with dim., and cresc., and decresc. Hée peyceived the colour of tone, varyinig in the eight sections of bis choir. He learned to apply the vagabond device of temnPo rubato, to play with the rhytbms, and to get the rigid lines of bis choral work loosened up into sometbing lilce free temperamental expression. Thus the tonal quality cf the Mendelssohin Choir evolved itself as a dream of colour and a dynamo of realism in snusîcal sound. Those who have hecome nxost f.P'niIar with its, great characteristics recob\u003enise ini that tone the art-quality of soxnething different from any Cther choir in the world. Just what that quality is might be hard to describe; but it is a characteristic of trexnendous, beauty, virility, and power, and -it relates constantly to the singular art-sense of a maxn who, neyer carried away by a superficial temperament, is always under the patient sway cf an almost limitless love of choral tone and colour. With such an expressional instrument Vogt was able to undertake any choral work ever written, and te do the most difficult modemn work without any of the customary elisions, of the most hazardous, passages practised by some of fixe choral societies abroad. The choir was capable of big uplifting episodes. These ixsed te occur most habitually in the unaccompanied workts; for some yeaxs most especially with two pieces, \"Scots Wha Hae \" and Gounods \" By Babylon's Wave.\" These two classics tbrilled many an audience who neyer paused to reflect that it was not the wild abandon of the 144",
         "jr 'n /1",
         "Dr. A. S. Vogt choir, flot obviously temperamental qualities, nothing in the least operatic, but simply the overwhelming emotional effect of tone-niasses in contrast, built up iu the colossal fortissimnos to ««the last ounce \" as he called it iu rehearsal, polished down as rigidly in the pianis- simos, and abouuding iu the colour of a tremendous choral technique. Vogt now recognlsed iu bis choir the expressional potentialities, of a great symphouy orchestra. And that came to hlm only as the resuit of slavish, unremitting hard work--twice, thrice a week iu rehearsals, sparlng nobody, excusing noue, every singer ticketed and numbered and kept on tab. When Exuil Paur took the baton of the Pittsburgb Symphony, Vogt saw lu Paur a revelation of conductorsbip. Hie studied Paur, who, after the death of Theodore Thomas was the greatest expressional conductor lu America. But in connoting the emotional effects produced by other conductors Vogt was always too astute to be led away into mere superficial tricks of expression. He had spent too, many hard years perfecing the technical side of a great choral instrument to, be, seduced into, the obvious glainour of mere emotionalism. Hie pinned bis musical faith to, the dramatic value of a tremendously perfected complexity of tonal effects. In the remarkable clarity of every one of the eight sections of bis, choir he seemed to build upon the sure foundation of one Sebastian Bach who to Vogt has always been a great modern. Did any choir ever sing the sublime chorales of the B Miuor Mass with greater power of brilliant definition in every one of the parts? Here and in ail great, poly- phonic works, even. those of ultra-modemn complexity, Vogt has demonstrated that ione and rhythm can be built up in thexuselves iuto a marvellous vebicle of draxnatic expression wbich makes inere eniotionalism a cheap thing hy comparison. Great tone and perfect rhythm are -thernselves dramatic. Vog-t has alw.ays believed it. In the practice of that belief he bas produced ,choral results that surprlsedl both biruseif and bis, choir and at times litera]ly dazzled the public. 145K",
         "Dr. A. S. Vogt With Paur and his band Vogt put on several great works, including the Choral Symaphony of Beethoven, the Deutsche Requiem of Brahms, the larger works of Elgar, the Olaf Trygvason'of Grieg, and one thing of Humperdinck; besides unaccompanied works froma al the countries of Europe in ail epochs, from, Russia, Germany, England, France, back to, the.middle ages of old Lotti and Palestrina ini Italy. The choir becaine almost fainous in its own city and, accompanied by Paur and bis orchestra, went-on a choral trip te Buffalo and New York. The critics and the cliques of Gotham broke into poeans of praise. The choir from Canada seemed to them like the fresh vigour of the Goths breakiÉg into the jaded preciucts of Rome. From that time on Vogt and bis choir became more popular iu the United States than in Canada. The con- nection with Paur and bis orchestra was chauged to, that of the Chicago Symphony, with whom the choir undertook such works as Elgar's Caractacus, the Verdi Requiem, the Cbildrea\u003es Crusade by modern French Pierne, and the Vita Nuova by the modern Italian Wolf- Ferrari. Such works as thes-. had neyer been contemplated in the scheme of the small choir that gave glees, psalms, and madrigals without an orchestra in :r894. Vogt had grown along with bis choir. After the trip to Chicago in igo8, ail the great orchestras of Ainerica clamoured te, co-operate with hlm. le stuck to the Chicago Symphony conducted by Frederick Stock, who, is stiil waiting for the end of the war that he may again bring bis band of many Teutons to play God Save the Ring, Caractacus, and Rule, Bnitannia te Canadians. If it is true that from. the student days in the St. Thomas Rirche of Leipsic until the second decade of the twentieth century Vogt had bettered the instruc- tions of bis masters, it is aise, true that he learued much of the greatest he has ever done from the choir itself. If he bas been, on one baud, a growing exp.-ssional artist playing upoon bis choir as an organist upon an t 146",
         "Dr. A. S. Vogt organ, lie has been, on the other hand, a diligent and sbrewd organiser of business management methods and the astute manipulator of other men. Vogt learned the necessity of being a choral diplomat. When enthusiasts binted that perhaps lie now had the greatest choir in the world, lie only admitted that lie would like the opportunity of showing Europe what bis, Canadian Choir could do. Hie is still waiting for the opportuxuty.",
         "REV. ALBERT CARMAN HiE is the last of the old prophets. The word of the Lord is as plain to hlm now as it was in the day of the camp- meeting and the circuit-preacher's saddle-bags. The sermon he first preached as Bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church in i874-he was then forty-one years of age-would corne as naturally word for word from the General Superintendent, Emeritus, of the Methodist Church in Canada in igi6. This Nestor of Methodism is eighty-two, years of age. Up tili the forty-first year of bis life he was an educator. For the past forty-one years he bas been a good deal of the time wrestling with modem tendencies in education. Rev. Albert Carman, D.D., the constitutional autocrat of the Methodist Church in Canada, until a year ago visiting, as far as he might, every Conference in Canada, and presiding every quadrermium at the General Confer- ence, was set aside as rigidlly as any Levite for the clear business of keeping heterodoxies down to a minimum. In bis itinerancy the bottom of the sermon barrel is as good as the top. He bas thundered out thousands of great sermons from hundxeds of texts. To the unprac- tised modemn ear ln the opera-chair pews of the million- aire Methodist churcli they may sound like much the saine sermon. It takes a logging-bee sense to get the piping Homeric rhythms of those covenanting dis- courses. No man cam hear one of them aud whlzz sereuely home in a. Itr\u003cousine to a palace in the park. 'Yonder coming along bahind is the whack of the old Bishop's stick on the pavement-and you se- blm swluging along there\u003e litde Anglican round bat and crlzzled-up face, arching siedfastly along as tbough ini bis boots he feit the stemu Iilt of the revival bymu: «Ari5e, my soul, arise. Shake off thy guilty fears.\" 149",
         "Rev. Albert Carman The sal hats glisten il the sun, the niorning gpowns shimmer into the bouquetted Limousines, and the $30,o00 organ pipes out the music drama match; but the once Bishop, always a bishop-Rýev. Albert Carman-would, as lief tramp home to the measure of Antioch or the solemn sonority of a psalm. In ail Canada there is no such clerical figure left as Carman. Since Canadian life grew away fromn th-. bush road and the prairie trail, there bas neyer been a mani who could so have clung to the inviolable creeds that kept bushmen from going to the devil. One by one the preacher brethren of bis age have gone either to the great majority or have become quavering veterans just abIc to mumble fireside memories of marvellous old Methodism. Carman still goes the road. Until he was the age of eighty-two he held the gavel at the quadrennial assemblies. Said a prominent Methodist layman a year or so ago to the writer: \"The hand of Dr. Carnian has been a deadly, wither- ing infiuenc on the vitality of Canadian Methodism( fàr twenty-five years. *Until it is removed, we shall n1ot expeot to teke our place axnong modemn church mnovemeënts.\u003e' The statement seemed like sacrilegious audacity; as though the sezular mind were daring to denounce the prophet who might cail down upon hlm the wrath of God. The dead hand of Dr. Carman at that time had not lost its grip. The puckery eyes of the old mentor had not faded from their inspirational gleam. And the harsh wintry voice of the preacher, sounding like tne century-old cail of the crow from the pine-tree, has neyer learned to remit the stern truxnpet teachings of the day when a literai heUl waited to bm-n inconsumably ail thtse who resisted God at camp-meetings. Carman was born in a clearing down in eastein Ontario. The sombre bush with its loud loggers and clanking teami was close to the door. His father was township reeve and afterwards warden of the country. The son seemed to have a shrewd head for figures. He might 150",
         "Rev. Albert Carman have become a great enginee'. First educated at Dundas Co. granunar school, then at Victoria University in Cobourg, Ontario, he graduated in 1855 aend became headniaster of the saine grammar school. ln 1856 he was appointed professor of mathematies in Belleville Seminary-afterwards nanied ini honour of hlm Albert College. Within a year lie was Principal, with mathe- niatics and physics as bis unemotional subjects. Here was no scope for heterodoxies. x\u002b y need flot equal z; but grant that it did, then must x until the end of the world equal z -y. The rnomentum of the terrestrial bail must always equal the mass multiplied, by the velocity no matter to, what conunon, centre of the -uni- verse it was tending. Absolute, ultimate finalities these, about which to speak with unqualified degnia was the only way to state the truth. Deacon he was in bis twenties, in that good old M.E. Church with its rancs, tities, and prefernients different from the exhorting, dernocratic Wesleyans. Yet Albert Carman was ever as rnucli Wesleyan as Episcopali n temperameit. He became eider at the age of thirty. Eleven years more lie spent bringing Albert College into the rank of the fuil-fledged university, until in 1868 he becamne its first Chanceilor and took tank arnong the scholars of that pioiîeer age as a man to whom exact literai truth was botter than. truth compounded with error or hearsay. During bis six years of chancellorship he becarne by force of character and habit niuch of a preacher. is learning,, and his doginatic piety mnade him at that tinie the greatest expounder of truth in Canadian Methodism. His attachment to the formn of the M.E. Churcb made him ahnost a ritualist. His astounding ferveur made hixn a flamning evangel. lu 1874 the brethren made Carznan Bishop cf the M.E. Church. And Bishop Carman. at the age of foity-one was the lean,uncomproniisingdivine,withascientist'sappetite for exact, unwavering truth. 2uoyant as an athiete, lie went about arnong the pulpits preaching uncon- ditional righteousness. If there was the shadow of the suspicion of a heresy he trailed it te its lait. He kept",
         "Rev. Albert Carman the pulpits up to full concert pitch of orthodoxy as a sbrewd inspector regulates his schools. Then came the Methodist confederation and the birth of Canadian Methodism as sucli. In place of two bishops and two camps, Carman becarne the General Super- intendent of the Methodist Church in Canada. So far as a Methodist coui-d be, Carman was the Primate of ail Canada in that particular creed. Hie was still the Bishop ini temperament. Be believed ini the autocracy of truth and the delegation of authority. He was a power in the pulpit; in a high moral oration the equal of any church dignitary i America. Bis per- petual message whatever bis text seemed to be, \" Corne ye out from arnong theni and be ye clean.\" Science was advancing. The rnid-Victorian age was coniing to a close. The old tenets of chemnical and geological truth were being revised i the light of Huxley, Tyndall, an'd Spencer. Divinity was challenged by Darwin. But with triumphal alinost vindictive joy the Primnate of ail Methodism i a country 4000 miles long rkicled the theory of protoplasm and the soul. The once professor of physics was the swift uprooter of ail materialistic doctrines, ail destructive criticisms, ail merely rational, arguments. There was srnail place ini bis anthology for the agnostic, less for the infidel, and none for the atheist or the deist. Here and there some freethinkfing pastor i the great field traveiled and aclxinistered by Dr. Carman enjoyed a quiet sr.noke-but neyer in the presence of the General Superintendent. No preacher in any of the conferences or district meetings of which lie was the head was ever supposed to have a bottle of wine lu bis ceilar, even for bis stomnach's sa1ze. A parson that swapped horses too cften, or bought stocks, or put bis money into houses and lands, cculd never have been pleasing to, Dr. Ca rman. Smail salaries were no bindrance to big righteousness. To go forth without scrip in bis purse was the privilege of every preacher. 'fhere was no parsonage so scant i its appointments that the head of the cburch could not feel at borne there. He never.overawed the brethren",
         "Rev. Albert Carman by any show of wealth--of which he had littie-or of aught but dignity and austere living, of which he had more than his share. Urbanity-had he ever any? He could enjoy a joke or a good discerning story, such as were often told hlm by certain wags of pastors, somo of whom neyer could keep such things out of their sermons. In the General Conferenco he could turnl an occasion by a homely, drastic; piece of withering wit-but there was always a tinge of scorn in it, nover any overplus of geniality. Carinan was no figure for a social function. Lingerie -and flutter neyer fascinated him. Ho was neyer im- pressed by the sizo of a mxan's bouse, the number of his servants, his horse and carrnage, his political, preferments, or his pedigree. But he had a wholesome respect for bigý-minded men, and on one occasion at least quite astounded the orthodoxy by welcoming to the platform of the great Methodist Conference the Right Hon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier, Premier and Romanist. Ail honest, old-fasbioned virtues were pleasing to Dr. Carman. Frivolity, extravagance, and extreme fashion made him weaxy. The church of John Wesley must romnain simple. The Methodist Discipline contained the interprotation of how to live in harrnony with the tenots of Methodism. 'Where they were less explicit than seemed advisable, thoy must be edited. Hence the celebrated foot-note prohibiting cards and dancing. Individual latitude must not be tolerated. Modem brethren midght have wealthy and fashionable parishioners-and in the Methodist Churcli of Canada there wero nover wanting plenty such-who believed that cards and dancing at home wero botter than bail-roonis and gaznbling parties elsewhere. But Dr. Carman nover believed in Methodist euchre or faniily dances. The value of these things was in their avoidance. Neither in exegesis was thore any latitude for the brethren. The Word was thus and se. It must be taken as iead. If geology and zoology and ethnology were ail hopelessly nebulised in the book of Genesis, se let it romain. The six days of creation were literai 153",
         "Rev. Albert Carman days. Geologists miglit romance about aeons, each thousands of years ini eyolution. The Word said succinctly-days. The centrifugal doctrine that worlds were flung from the Sun inl molten masses, and that the earth took ages to cool before plants and animais and man camne upon it, was ail very weil so long as the obvious hand of God was recogriised in the process. The theory that the Garden of Eden miglit have been at the North Pole; that Adam miglit have been a prô- duct of mixed evolution, a soul infused into a highlI--y organised ape; that the Flood was a figure of speech and Noah's Ark a niere symbol-ail these were mis- chievous exaznples of the Biblical saying, '\u003cGod made man upriglit but lie sought out many inventions.\u003e How rigorously Dr. Carman clung to liter-alisin and plenary inspiration in bis reading of Scripture was forcibly iilustrated by M~s treatment of Rev. Mr. Jack- son, pastor of a fashionable Methodist congregation ini Toronto, a few years ago. The Jacks-on-Carman contro- versy, illurninated by letters to the press from laymen tinged with higher criticism, made one of the un- happiest episodes in the history of Canadian Methodismn. When it was over Carman remained; Jackson went out of the pulpit, afterwards out of Victoria College, the old aima mater of Carman, who years before had gone out against Dr. Workman, exegetist in Victoria College, because lie tauglit that the book of Isa.iah contained no specfc references to the Messiali. Civilisation miglit discard child slavery, ignorance, and sinins. Social reforin and econonio revolution miglit trausform the fabric of the State. A i-ew Canada miglit be in the making 'with the march of events and the shuffling of migrant peoples. AUl these were the hand of God working upon humanity. The form of triith and the authority of the spiritual autocrat must remain. The General Superintendent had bis hand on the grand quadrennial Conference and upon ail the lesser conferences. The Parliament of Methodism. under the gavel of Carman was sometimes what the English Parliament was to the Stuarts. Critics of Carmanismn 1154",
         "- Rev. Albert Carman in belief pointed with pride .o the marvellous old ad- ministrator who followed th.ý debates as keenly as a great judge the arguments oi counsel. They watched the storms rise and break about his head, and admired hlm, because he was not nerei1y unmoved but was mighty in decision, swift to eliminate truth from, error, almost infallible in his judgrnents. Editors admitted that Carrnan would have made a powerful leader of men in civil life. Politicians confessed that in Parlia- nment he might, have been the equal of most. Big men came and went in the life of Carman. Rev. Dr. Douglas of Montreal strode Macready-Jike across the stage and vanished in a cloud of oratory. Rev. Dr. Potts, the Irish organiser, Ezra Stafford, the Dickens- like wizard of the pulpit, Dr. Burwash, the placid Dean of thoughtful Methodism-all came and went while Carman was still in his prime. H-enry Ward Beecher, Talinage, Spurgeon, Moody, ail did their greatest workt in the heyday of Carman's career. In the exposition and embodiment of a single unrelenting idea that led up to the horns of the altar of God, none of them was greater than Carman\u003e who still remains a battered little giant of old Methodism in Canada. And as we behold hlm maarching prophet-like down the city street he seems to travel in a mist; some strange, stemn old man who neyer knew the world wouid outgrow bis doctrines even while it continued to venerate the mani. And behind him somewhere stands the little old country church of the circuit preacher and the cordwood pile, the horses in the shed and the quarterly meeting, the brethien of the cal -fskin leg boots under their trousers testifying to wtiat the Lord had done for them--since last they heard the voice of this mnan. 1155",
         "SIR SAM HUGHES MAjoR-GENE-RAL SIR SAM HUGHES, K.C.B., always seems to suggest liobnailed boots. Wlietber he stands on a platformn to, speak, whicl lie does as.'a ruile quite badly, or trudges about a xniltary camp, wbich he does very well, or bestrides a horse of which he is very fond, or goes to bed with bis boots on if lie lias to-tie boots of the Minister of Militia are always respectfuily to be considered. Be sure no one else in Canada at tinie of writing is able to occupy those boots, of which the General is very glad. So with more than 350\u003e000 Canadians under arms and over ioo,ooo more to corne, Sir Sam boots bis, blustering way over Parliament Hill, quite entitled to regard himself as tlie Kitchener of Canada. General Huglies is no man to be merely elected to an lionourable position, liead of a committee, with soft speeches and tlie illuminated addresses of appreciation. He is no figure to sit upon a tlirone of democracy with ail manner of formai personages in the foreground and on tlie wings, presiding and giving judgment. No, he must be setting bis liobnailed boots down bard upon the floor or wvrestling tlie joints of a cliair till tliey creak, knowing that ail the while the pressure is going up and Up ini the national gauge, tliat more armies are muster- ing, more milions being lieaped up for him to, spend, more ships gliding out of Montreal, Quebec, and St. John loaded witli troops, and more wounded soldiers coming back to tell their civilian coinrades they aldso should be off on the King's business. No doubt enthusiastic London writers, unaccustomed to Sam Hughes and bis faults, have said things about hlm. in print that were somewliat fiattering. He seerned to some people over there like a new species of borean 157",
         "Sir Sam Hughes virility. At that time the Canadian army in France and. England was only five times the number of British troops under Wellington at. Waterloo, and the total nuniber of Canadian soldiers under arins at home and abroad was only a third larger than the British troops ini the Crimean War. But Langemarck and St. julien were still the talk of the Empire\u003e as Paardeberg was fifteen years earlier when Colonel Hughes was enacting useful military melodrama rôles in South Africa. On bis third visit to England since the war began Sir Samn was alluded to by more than one responsible newspaper as Commander-in-Chief of the Canadian Forces. Which he is-precisely as much as Lloyd George is Commander- in-Chief of the British Army. We understand ini Canada that the Governor-Gene.- ' alone has that rank. But to Samn Hughes even Governors are sometimes superfiuous. Sir Sain Hughes-' whole life has been a protest against common authority. Few men's actions more canclidly bespeak their characters. In some men actions speak lo.uder than words. In Samn Hughes-they _are a grand opera duet. What hi- is, he wants as many people as possible to know, on the principle of the greatest good to the greatest number. Since ever he was a fourteen-year- old lad\u003e volunteering in the Fenian Raid of 1866, he has been in the business of obstreperous, self-advertisem;nt. Parental belief ini the young man who was to becz)me the organiser of the greatest army that ever went over- seas to any war under à.ny flag, rnay be judged from, the fact that he was not cbristened Samnuel, but Sain. A boy with the na.me Sarrn Hughes neyer could become a conventional gentility, especially when born, baptised, and bred in the logging-bee, bul.1-driving county of Durham\u003e, Ontario. The father was a fariner. Samn might have spent most of bis youth on the father's famin but for bis eider brother James, who becanie a pedagogue in bis teens and persuaded Samn to do likeveise. In Toronto Sain attended Model and Normal School, got a first-class certificate\u003e and went teacbing in rural schools nea.r bis old homestead. He played lacrosse\u003e worked at soldier- 158",
         "Sir Sam Hughes ing, taught Englisli literature i a Toronto Collegiate Institute, and cramrned up an honour course at the Uiiiversity without lectures. But Samn had no deep-rooted passion for book know- ledge. He was much more practically interested i soldiering. He became a junior officer in the old 45th Regiment in Durham county when bis eider brother John was a senior. When John took the colonelcy of the 46th, Sain took comnmand of the 45th. These were rural regiments whose only prospect of reai war seemed to be some recurrence of Fenian Raids. The idea of such regiments going abroad to serve i Europe or anywhere i the world under the British flag outside of Canada neyer dawned on the average officer, and very probably did not mucli concern Colonel Sam Hughes. Somne tirne afterwards Hughes becanie owner and editor of a smaLl weekly newspaper, the Lindsay Warder. The newspaper gave hlm an opportunity to show what he thought about Liberals and anti-Ora-ngemen. Lt was by no means a gentle publication. And froin episodes said to have happened i that sancturn, quite obviously Hughes was neyer itended to be a vexy urbane editor. .What he liked about the newspaper was its self- assertion. The Lindsay Warder expressed Hughes. Lt also did a good deal to get the editor into Parliainent and to keep hlm there, when he had but one political ambition; first to keep the Liberals out, next to get thein out-which proved so long a task that the Colonel turned eagerly to the Boer War which in 1899 gave hlm a stage for ambition of an earlier sort. Lt was. the Boer War that made Samn Hughes first feel like a world figure. Up to that tiie he had been out of patience with mere politics, and quite disgusted with rnilitary matters in Canada. There neyer had been soldiers enough in Canada to please hlm. The country was too peaceable. Where now were théî blessed old rebellions Of 1837 and of 1885; and the Fenian Raid of :r866? Done. Smokestacks were taking the place of drill-sheds. -There neyer had been a real soldier in the Militia Department; so it seemed. Parliament seemed '159",
         "Sir Sam Hughies to have no expectation of wars to corne. *But there must be war. Man is born to figlit. Nations had always fought. How could Canada becorne a nation nierely by elections and trade returas, and garrison parades of busbies, pipeclayed helmets, and glittering bands? However, the parades were encouraging. But they were not-war. A picturesque militia was not an army. Drill-sheds might do something; but they somnetimes seezned to have as niuch to do with the social column in the newspapers as with the Military Gazette. Men were not dxilling enough. Two weeks a year at suamer camp was mere child's play.with tin soldiers. There should be universal training. Every Canadian youth should learn to drii and handie a gun. Seif-defence was a first principle. Against whorn? Hughes, neyer paused to answer. Thé'\\vorld was bound to have wars. Canada itself had been established by long wars. But these were only the overture to, wars which somte day inight inake Ottawa forget that a hostile tariff was small use without a beiigerent arrny to, back it Up. So the war in South Africa really seexned like a nation-xnaldng godsend to Colonel Hughes. The melo- cirama which he enacted down there was one which only he could have carried out. The story of it is a mixture of fact and apocrypha. Hughes bimself was responsible for both. For the first time since he became a man he was engaged lu real war. Lord Milner sent huxu as assistant to -Colonel Wynter on transports to the Modder River. Hughes revoliutionised the transports, because they needed it. He afterwards went -as right- band mani to Sir Henry Settie on lines of communication; ,one resuit of which -was that years afterwards Sir Henry kept a portrait of Colonel Hughes on the xnost con- spicuous part of bis drawlug-room wafls ini England. No doubt many things were going awry in South Africa. At any rate Colonel Hughes said so in private letters to some Canadian friends who, indiscreetly published thern and gave the Colonel a reputation as a niilitary egoist that he scarcely expected to deserve. But the legends-what of theni? Legends are but x6o",
         "«~K Y -71",
         "Sir Sam Hughes the true stories of impossible people. Colonel Hughes was always more or less impossible. How else, for instance, could he have galloped up with a corporal's guard to a-band of Boers, making them. beileve that he was the advance guard to 2000 Britishers li the rear, forcing the natives to disarm, and holding the position? There is no other soldier in Canada of whom such a story could have been characteristically ~Ild. That it does flot appear li any of the correspondence of L. C. Amery to the London Times concerning -the Hughes programme li South Africa, or i the many allusions to Colonel Hughes in the seve-n-volurne history of that war, is because there were so, many facts to, narrate about Hughes that it was needless ta exploit a possible legend. That war took ail the theory out of Colonel Hughes' soldiering. Henceforth he looked forward to, war, w, WAR 1Inh Parliament and out of it, li season and out of season, he ta]ked war. When Lord Duiidonald, the reliever of Ladysrnith, took comxmand of the Canadian forces, it looked to Colonel Hughes as thougli war would become part of the national programme of Canada. But Dundonald tan foui of the M,4itia Department and was forced to resign. General Htjtton had no better luck. Canada was a bard country to militarise. There were too many.;:ailways to build, new areas of settlement to conquer, immigrants to bring li, towns to, fling on the map, trade returns, to bulge the blue-books, and election baties to, fight. If those trade-booming Libera]s ever could be got out of office-sometbing miglit be done with the Militia Department to make it resemble a war office. Colonel Hughes was biding his tirne. Some of bis friends pre- dicted that he would become the next: Minister of Militia. Hie probably believed them. lI October ipou, flot far from the aiiversary of General Bxiock's great death at Queenston Heiglits, Colonel Hughes found himself on the government aide of Parliaxnenè. By November he was Minister of Militia. By CMrstma.- lie had begun to, make the country under- 1161 L",
         "Sir Sam Hughes stand that there was to be something like a war office on Parliament Hill. And the new Cabinet had scarcely begun to decide which of'its members would, be re- sponsible for spending most of the people's money before it became quite clear that over the door of the Militia Departinent there was always the invisible sign, \"Soldiers- Wanted.\" There was indeed a feverish, pompous insistence about -the Militia works that made many of the Colonel's critics smile as they used to sinile when they read bis letters from South Africa. Whenever lie went into any part of Canada--even in peace-loving, parochial Quebec -it was always expected that the visit would be mernorialised by a new armouries\u003e a fresh squad of school cadets, or a new reginient. Colonel Hüghes was determined to get nibney for war purposes ini peace time and to spend it. Hie neyer got haif as mucli as he wanted, Perennially he talked war. He clotted the Dominion with redcoats. Hie remembered the South African days and preached up the value of khaki. Hie turned the sunimer camps into imitations of real war. He'established the dry canteen and kept ladies out of the camp. Hughes was always bothering somebody; always more or less of an irritation. Hie blustered and booted about as though there was to be a battle to- morrow. Hie shouted for universal, training and held up the sbining examples; of Australia and New Zealand, and even Switzerland, much to the disgust of the pacifists. Hie was derided by Lîberal editors as a martial maniac who, always an egotist, had become insufferable with the swank of the sviord. Wh2n the famnous deadk(ck camne over the Naval Aid Bull, and the Conservative Govermnent was said to have knowledge of the German menace incommunicable to, Parliaxuent, Colonel Hughes looked even more prescient than bis colleagues and warned the critics to watch, out. lu their brie visits to Canada both Sir John French and Sir Ian Hiamilton agreed that we could send abroad, perhaps half an army corps in case of an Empire war. Colonel Hughes may have known better. x62",
         "Sir Sam Hughes But ail that he knew mualtiplied by itself was a circuinstance compared to what Colonel Hughes and the country found themselves suddenly forced to do after the war actuaily broke out. Almost overnight, the Colonel came to hixnself in a rea.t war office on Parliament Hill. Before ail the ambassadors had been re- cailed, our Minister of Militia with the bellicose forefront of Mars became the hoenan focus, of a disorganisation that for a tiine looked as though it would disrupt the Department. Chaos was the law. Out of it must corne order; mustering regiment,.,, concentration camps, so- cailed mobilisation, fresh battalions recruited, Colonel Hughes suddenly made a Brigadier-Gernera-the mov- ing, untamable genius of Valcartier with -ts 33,000 iT't'\u003e. and the autocrat who clapped, at least, one editor U. jail for daring to, criticise hixn. How General Hughe:2 dominated Valcartier and for a turne did his best to be despot to haif the regiments, ini the country is now a matter of ahnost obscure history. Indiscretion was always the better part of Hughes' valour. Inefficiency was neyer a Hughes' fault. Nobody but Generpl Hughes ever would have dared to browbeat Canadian officers as he is said to have done at Valcartier. Nobody but Sir Sain ever could have been the original of s0 many humanly apocryphal stories'\u003e He is said to have played Napoleon on the mo-and with a white charger; to have sent strange cable messages to Sir John IFrench telling bum how to dlig hiniseif in on the Frenchi front or words to that effect; to have made hirnself the Kitchener off Parliament Hill, issaing in- structions to officers of regiments and igr'oring the C.O.\u003es; and in the frrst few months of organisation to have done and said enough unconventional, things to have made anybody else but Samn Hughes ridiculous. Chuckling critics predicted that when the full story of the absurd despotism of General Hughes came out in Parliament there would be a vacancy -in the head offices of the Minister of Militia. General Hughes quite expected thern to say that. But he had'so many things to do that he gave hirnseli no tinie either to be worried z63",
         "Sir Sam Hughes about it or to, stop taIking. Somebody mu st talk while. -ie worked. No-body was, workiiig so, haxd as General Hughes. Nobody, therefore, had such a right to talk. The critics said that \"Sham Shoes \" as a slogan would be the undoing of Samn Hughes. But the- bad boots of the first Canadian contingent were only- a fleabite. The General was headlong into the organisation of the shel industry ini Canada befre the bad boots were ventilated in coxnmittee. Before the sheil industry was well under way the Ross rifle-endored by General Hughes--came on the stage. Then it was the lack of uniforms and general equipinent. Always there was something wrong. And at every turn the General was able to say- \"0 f course there is. Didn't 1 always tell you this country was unprepared for war? \" Then he roiled up bis sleeves a tuck higher and got deeper into the labours of Hercules. The war machine creaked under its load. Mustering battalions came up everywhere from. ocean to ocean bebind the original 33,000 mnen sent to Valcartier, who, as they swung out to the Gulf with General Hughes on board one of the ships had bis parting message to \"«My soldiers\" fresh in every man's memory. They said that if he could be made commander of those troops in France he would, have given Up bis office on Parliarnent 11111 But the country at home needed the man who could snap bis fingers at ail miles, regulations, and precedents. Generat Hughes went back to bis war office to raise the grcatest axmy that ever went overseas froin any shore; to, stand up in mass meetings and make triumphal speeches, pointing with pride to the work done at the front by seasoned officers who, a few montbs Mefre, were men of business at their desks. When the Ring made bim-a K.C.B. did the General refuse it because he believed in sbirtsleeves, democracy? No, lie took it as a sample of the King's discriminating kindness and went to, work ail the harder, to get as many more distinctions as the King saw fit to, bestow. A wit, comning a phrase to explain why the King had so, hononred Samn Hughes, said adroitly, \" Le roi s'amuz-e.» i64",
         "Sir Sam Hughes When the General saw tl]is epigrama le may have said to bimself: \"' Weil, if the King must be amused, Sara Hughes doesn't mind being the original of one more joke.\" And lie went on rolling up bis sleeves along with bis army. When certain irregularities in munitions contracts were cited in the Kyte charges in Parliament, Sir Samn was again in England-where he liked to be. lie was cabled to corne home and answer the charges. Before sailing lie decided to have an audience itih the King and applied to the War Office for an arrangement. Red- tape officialdom. blandly assured hlm, that such an audience would take six days to eventuate. «\"Six days, nothingi \" blurted Sir Samn. -\"I've got to see the King riglit away before I go back to Canada.\" He ordered bis chauffeur to drive direct to Bucking- hain Palace, where lie sent in bis card, and i hall an hour-so runs the Iegend-he was granted an audience with the King. Was it Iikely that a man of whom sucli a story could be told as truth would be nonplussed by any Royal Commission investigating fuse contracts? Sir Samn was neyer for a moment taken aback. He treated cross- examining counsel as though they were ultra vires, if not downright impertinent. In spite of evidence that miglit have disconcerted an ordinary man the Minister of Militia was practica]ly exonerated by the verdict of the Commission, charged only with flot knowing certain things which were somewhat irregular-under circuin- stances which were theniselves umprecedented in this country. Shortly after the verdict was reached Sir Sain ordered a triumphal review of 33,000 troops newly arrived at Camp Borden under conditions that created a smafl mutiny. The naine of Camp Serveil in Manitoba was changed to Camp Hughes. The General went back to England and reviewed the Canadian troops at Brain- shott. The hobnailed boots were hammering again. The Ross rifle, the pet of Sir Sain Hughes, proved to be a différent kind of weapon froin that xised in the 165",
         "Sir Sam Hughes trenches. Pending~ the day when the worId', arrmes would be using the Ross rie, the factory of that naine at Quebec went into the making of Lee-IEnfields. Water on a duck's back is creosote coinpared to the effect of criticisin on Sir Sain Hughes. We have nieyer befre produced the like of bis psychology in Canada. He knows it. By ordinary canons he wiII not be con- denined. While politicians study occasions, Sanm Hughes crates thein. And if one kind of occasion will flot suit he proxnptly evolves another. He plays poker with a loaded pistol on the table. And he is aiways efficient, which ini a turne of war means - uch. When the war is over what of Sir Samn Hughes? Turne will tell. But of course Samn Hughes may have sornetbing to say about TUrne.",
         "COLONEL GEORGE DENISON FoRTY years now the most eminent authority in Anierica on cavalry tactics lias gone afoot two and a hall miles almost every rnorning down to-the Toronto City Hall. Sharp at 9.15 lie sets out, legs wide like a cavalryinan, chin up, eyes as clear as icicles, stick on the grAnd swing. Scrunching along on the bard snow one morning of i916, Derby hat, frock overcoat, and the fresh pink of the morning on bis face, lie was way- laid by a recruiting sergeant. \" You're a fine straight-up chap, my man,\" said the sergeant. \"'Why don't you enlist? Corne with us.\"' The Colonel laughed like a bird. As lie walked with the recruiting officer down to, the City Hall lie told the maxi the simple soldiering outline of bis career, up to the age of seventy-seven. Ris great-grandfather, Captain John Denison Of H-.M. 2nd York Regiment, bearing anus in Canada, began the Denison Unxe li this counitry in 1792. R-is graudfather, Colonel Penison, was a volunteer in the border war of 1E8i2 and the Rebellion Of-1837. Ris father, Colonel Denison, orlginated the garrison of Toronto. And the present Colonel George Denison is the youngest maxn of seventy-seven li the British Empire. Five minutes of ten by the dock i the tower, the Colonel*strides through a lie of bluecoats, chucks down bat, stick, anid overcoat ln his ante-room, brushes back a wisp of hair, anid bursts like a fine .winter dawxi into a -hlgb, somewbat gloorny chamber. Some time before he arrives the police court is crowded. Clerçs, policemen, lawyers, prisoners.-n the dock, eight or ten reporters on the side sharpening pendis, anid outside the dock a rest- less crowd on the gallery ail waiting for Toronto's reguar morning opera to begin. \"Take off your- bat,-\" snaps, a burly policeman door- 1r67",
         "Colonel George Denison keeper to an unoffending citizen who lias it haif off already. \"'Silence!\u003e'\" bawls the big grandiose Chief Inspector who has been as long on the police as Denison has been on the bench. The Colonel is on stage, seated high on his throne of surnmary justice adxninistered by common sense, look- ing over a huge book at actors and audience. The news- papermen are ready for the first word. Derison lias always been good copy. Any moment lie may shout an epigrain that starts hunian nature as a fresh breeze stirs the leaves of a jungle. \"'John Jones, stand up!\" It is the voice of a Colonel comnianding. If Jones were a reginient he could not corne to attention sooner. Whatever hd nay be-wife-beater, coimnon drunk and disorderly, burgiar, footpad, or bank ab- sconder-you infer froni the tone of the Colonel that lie will be either haiùged or sent to penitentiary for life. \" John Jones, you are charged that you did on the blank day of blank at the City of Toronto assault and beat-etc., etc., contrary to the statute in that case made and provided. What do you say-guilty- or not \"uUNoýt guilty, your honour.\"2 Counsel for the defence, at once b7egins to jockey. The Colonel knows what is coniing. John Jones night: be strung out for haif an hour. Denison gets rid of hlma in less than two minutes. The late B. B. Osler, the niost eminent jury lawyer every known. in Canada, used to twit Denison with dlsposing of sixty cases in sixty minutes. The Colonel cornes as near to, that sehedule as lie may. Before rnost of those lawyers were bomn Denison was handing out dmliead decisions on crime in Toronto. Human nature lias changed very littie in that time. There is only more of it. The man that got drunk on good whisky and beat his hoop-skirted wife in 1877 is not mudli different from the man who gets crazy on \"doped \" whisky and abuses the woman. who wauts a ic68",
         "Colonel George Denison vote and a divorce in 191i6. Statutes have been priûked up and elaborated since 1877; but the essential prin- ciffles of law as it relates to human nature are the same yesterday, to-day, and forever. Lawyers have multiplied and subdivided into ail manner of expert sub-species in modem times; but the pettifogger and the master of chicanery are always 'with us. \"I will allow no lawyer to influence my decisions ini law,\" says the Colonel over and over, in as many ways as a juggler ties a knot. He practised law himself between the frrst year of the American Civil War and 1877. But in the flrst five years of bis legal career lie rose from captain to lieutenant-colonel ini the Governor-General's bodyguard. A publisher once sent Denison a treatise on criminal law suggesting, somewhat sarcastically perhaps, that it miglit be a good book for the Colonel to, read. \"I neyer read law,\" replied the Colonel. Mis police court, one of the most remarkable in the world, is a proof of it. Denison knows bis police court law. 0f ail laws lie best interprets those of human nature wbich usually have very littie to do with statutes. Me dispenses common-sense justice to as many people as possible i two hours. The legal hair-splitter, the casuist, the Lerring-trailer, the bulldozer, and above ail the lawyer who sxnirks to himself that lie wiIl get Denison to discliarge bis client ini spite of evidence--all these have short shrlft with the Colonel. In giving decisions lie seems to act on the advice of Lord Mansfield ta a colonial governor: \" Judge according ta common sense and give no reasons. Your judgments wiil probably be right; but your reasons if you give them are almost sure to be wrcn.g.\"ý \" Language or fighting? \" is t7ie key question to many a case that lets the Colonel brush away tecimicalities like cobwebs. Me reads the face of a stranger in the dock as thougi lie had known hlm half a lifetime. The old offender lie knows by bis first name-knew hlm. years ago; the same old story-a drop too mucli. \" Well, go home and stop drinking. B~ut remember I've got my eye on you. Cail thenetae. z69",
         "*Colonel George Denison The Colonel might have made a bad judge. He is the best of magistrates. Next case the policeman may have been at fault. He must be corrected. The military morals of the police must be kept Up. Almost before the Colonel has made this point clear the next case is called. By the time the reporters have the-names down, \"\"Dollar and costs or thirty days,\" shouts the Colonel. \"Call the next case.\" It is the formula of a man who was neyer knlown to, be mnoved by connivance or collusion, neyer bent or prejudiced from. bis splendid path of wholesome bigotry based upon common sense, neyer learned in the la* and neyer ignorant of human nature, neyer too cl6se to a tragedy not to lighten it witb plain good-humour and sympathy. Forty years he bas been operating this surmnary rnfll of hulnan justice. He has seen the number of cases in bis court multiply itself by ten; the one original court become four courts-o--ne in the morn- ing to try out common drunks, one lu* the aiternoon, presided over by bis chief assistant, the children's court instituted by himself, and bis own memorable court between the bouts of ten aund twelve noon every legal day. But there is no court like Denison's; and news- papermen know it. Had he ever tâken Coke and Black- stone to bed with him he might have been an eminent judge. But the police court would have lost a great magistrate and the newspapers years of good copy. Forty or fifty cases between ten and twelve leave the Colonel as- fresh as when be came down in the momning. On the curb he is met by a citizen wbo cails hlmn George. WVith bis sword-]ike stick he executes an ixnaginary sketch map on the pavement to show what the Allies should have done or left undone at the Dardanelles. Waf'ching him, you xnay flot realise that he has a son at Suvla Bay. In ten minutes he may be li an editor's office. The police-court reporter struggling with bis crime copy to maire it read as human as it sounded ini the Colonel's court heais that trombone voice down the corridor. Teni minutes with the editor'on what is the future of the Empire, or the matter with the army,",
         "Colonel George Denison and lie drops into the associate e\u003citor's office te boit out a sermon in a pair of epigrams. Off lie goes to the National Club for lunch, every day at the same table, identical set of cronies-but a fresh batch of stories. In the seventy-seventh ý ear of this man's cavalry clank in Canada the glory and the song of Empire rise to a.grand heiglit. To hlm the never-setting Imperial sun is more than a symbol; the red line on the map as significant as the thin red line of many a hard-won battie. The bugle is his instrumnent of culture; the cavalry horse bis symbol of Empire. The outWard trail over the prairie peterlng off into the foot-hifls and the Rockies is to hlm not a inere waggon road to mil and to market, but a road leading ultlmately to the heart of the Empire-which for the tinie being ma-%, be the boot-tracks of Colonel Denison. The Colonel abominates subterfuge. He glories i the open road. In cavalry mnatters a strategist, lu most other things lie cornes at you with the headlong sincerity of a sporran and a bayonet. In the teeth of sucli a healthy gale of opinion you neyer dream of spinnlng cobwebs. There are few ifs and flot many buts. The thing is plain as a pikestafi. You wonder you had not seen it long ago. We understand that Colonel Denlson was present at the blrth of most societies in this country that have anythlng to do with the Empire. He has nmade stlmulat- ing speeches alniost anywhere in Canada, and hes always left people with a bigger practical desire for citizenship. There is neyer any gloom on bis face; neyer auy im- pendlng dlsaster lu his voice. H1e speaks better than any other soldier in Canada-and much better than the average member of Parliaxnent. H1e exudes common sense, and does it with a fine ecstatic noise. At any moment in any speech you mights faucy a hot-foot despatch rider rusblng on to the platform and tb.e Colonel in the midst of a fervent patriotic perortion- \"Boots, saddle, to horse, and away! \" The war literature he wrote. in the 'sixties and 'seventies occupied more space in priter's ink than al 17,",
         "Colonel George Denison the cases he ever won and lost in bis sixteen yeais, at !aw. In 1861 hewrote an article asking, \"Canada, is she prepared for war? \"-and, of course, answered it. What war-what did. it mâater? Rere was a vast new country for which both regulars and volunteers had fouglit since the days of Champlain, iniagining, so far as the governxnents and politicians, were concerned, that there n-ight some day be a nation instead of a crown colony north of parallel 49 v'ithout even the simulation of a standing army, without coast defences, without the beginnings, of a navy. These wvere questions only indirectly connected with the Colonel's tactical treatises on the art of war and bis two works, Modern Cavalry and the History of Cavalry. The first of these was published in London in :r868. By 11881 it had been, translated into German, Russian, and Hungaxian. For aught we know, soine of the Kaiser's Uffians have studied that book. \u003eThe Hisffomy of Cavalry was a prize work done for a competition started by the Czar of Russia, who gave first prize to Colonel Denison and invited hirm to spend two months in -St. Petersburg, where the Colonel was presented at Court. Altogether an audacious episode. How did lie know that some day the Cossacks would flot be thunder-, ing into British India with copies of bis cavafry works in their saddle-bags? Yet if the Colonel had taken the trouble to write a book of Russian iznpressions-which lie miglit easily have done-he would no doubt have pointed out that he could see very well where the real menace to the British Empire was arising; not on the Neya-.but along the Rbine. What an ironic calamity it would have been if the German Kaiser had offered the prize won by Colonel Penison and the Colonel had spent two months at Berlin, presented io the Emperor at Potsdamn and niaking a friend of Bernhardi 1 Another briglit little book of the Colonel's is Sc'Idiering in Canaa. A newspaperman who read it some years ago remarked to a teacher in Upper Canada College, of which the Colonel is one of the governors, that it con- tained an alarming percentage of first personal pronouns. 172",
         "Colonel George Denison \"Yes, but it isn't offensive,\" said the teacher. \" It's too Denisonian for that. Why, I remember hearing hlmn say that he was the very first to point out to Josephi Chamnberlain the principle of the Imperial zollverei which becanie the Chamberlain slogan.\"' That was as near as the Colonel ever perniitted him- self to, be corralled by any political party. An undoubted Tory by nature, a democrat in speech and action, no party bas ever claimed the undivided allegiance of this believer in hiniseif. He remains a critic of ail parties- even a Third party; and what he thinks. of the Frenchi- Canadian Nationalists is quite irreducible to, comnion English. Once upon a time lie headed the Canada First party. If any of bis critics, fancied lie would shriek for an independent Canada they were sadly niistaken. Canada First to the Colonel means Canada first in the Empire. Presented to two British nionarclis and to the Czar of Russia, the Colonel lias neyer been knighted. He midglt have been Sir George long ago. Hie preferred to, remain Colonel Denison. Nothing proves the man's aristocracy better. We have niany kuiglits in Canada. If the King's condescension ke-os up nlo citizen, no matter how unoffending or democratic by nature, will escape the danger of knighthood. Colonel Denison declines, the honour. Hie knows that the moment we begin to, call hlm Sir George bis real distinction is gone. We may yet have a reginient of Sir Georges. We can have but one Colonel Denison. lt73",
         "SIR EDMUND WALKER CLEVER people are neyer so interesting as when they are uncomfortable. We must make Sir Edmund Walker uncomfortable. So please imagine the President of the Canadian Bank of Commerce-and officiai, head of as many other polite conventionalities as possible-denuded of ail t-hat makes hlm so comfortable a citizen of an established common- wealth. Transplant this master of amenities to, the midst of a vast terra incognita, 'where as yet even the Bank of Commerce has flot acquired corner lots, and wliere the oxily street is a casual trail that begins nowhere and ends everywhere, with nobody on the trail except a vagrant band of redskins who cross thatpart,' of the prairie once every full moon. Suddenly as modemn war Sir Edmund finds himself the sole g**enie of this vast terrain remote from even a furpost. His only accessories are a deerskin robe, sin sandals, an axe, a gun, and a box of matches. He has not even a shack. Civilisation does not exist. HRe must reconstruct it for.himself. He is abruptly reminded that he is funda- mentaiy a primai being. There is no money; flot even beaversIn currency or military tokens; therefore no bank. And if there were currency there is no one to circulate it. As there are no people, there are conse- quently no institutions; therefore no interchanging ideas; flot even a telephone or a telegrapli wire, a steel rail or a Watertank. .Now this is highly uncomfortable, and it wiil take a very cleve r man to make it anything else. But a man wlio bas spent forty-seven years in the Bank of Commerce and as miauy years as Moses led the Israélites in. the search for Canaan, working up to the Presidency of that federalised. institution, is not likely to, find hiniseif baffied by such a dilemm'a. With bis axe he cuts enough 175",
         "poplars to :: rudmundaki e ro- with sods. He shoots an unwary buck deer and proceeds to make, himself a meal. He has at once begun a new comnrunity based upon the need for shelter and food. He is himseif a demand. Suppiy mrust follow. .By the full of the moon lie has accumnulated a heap of dry deersIns. The Indians corne trailing aIon.g. They are startled by the shack and the deerskin mani, who at once offers to exchange ai bis deerskins for a pony. By the end of three full moons this Crusoe of the prairie is recognlsed as a tradig-post. More Indiaris go that way. This mani creates wealth. He erects a littie store. Camp-smokes rise every day now within a mile of hlm. fis store is a rendezvous. He devises leather tokens which lie cafls money and teaches the red men their use li f2ade. P4çýentIy he has sucli a heap of these that he keeps thern li a chest. The chest is housed in a smail shack. The shack becomes a bank. Traders and white folk are by this timne settling on the hIils about. They regard the max i ith the bank as the centre of a new commonwealth. fiHe lends money, taking li security skins anid other commodities. The -place is cailed Edmundston after its founder. People who come, to trade want to boom its corner lots anid subdivide its environs. The banIng custos opposes them. He picks the best corner li the towxi for a xiew batik with fuiture Corithiaxi pfflars, anù does bis best to discoumage other traders from. iflating.rexits and lard values. People who corne to Edxnundston must be zid of the bogey- wealth. Cîtizens must learn that a dollar is but a symbol of man's labour on raw material, creatixig wealth. They- doxiot uxiderstand this. Sir Edmxuxid teaches them. Like Socrates of old he takes a street corner in bis modern Athens and expouxids bis practical theory of citizenshlp. lI the stniggle to develop Edmuxidstoxi the banker is xiaturaily elected head of ail committees of improvement.- By belng the general servant of the comxiuity which he stuidies li every detail, lie becomes its master. To banlc and store lie adds a school; a readig circle which, develops into a library with a -smali wig for pictures 176",
         "Sir EG'mund Walker painted by other clever folk. Some well-to-do citizen miust put up a mnusic hall; others must organise musical talent. The reading circle becomes a society of authors and an historical society both headed by burgomaster Edrnund. But whenever the citizenry attempt to raid the bank i ar public improvement funds-the Latin sign goes up-Nihilo faciente. The public must learn to provide its own funds: moreover, the cost of utilities must be kept down. Once a year the banker issues a pronunciament in the town newspaper, showing people how they jave done business for twelve naoons; how somte are becomin g dangerously ricli by speculation and some lamentably poor by laziness; how if bank balances are to be kept up there must be greater economy, consistent with progress. Nobody reads the whole document which is liled away for reference purposes allong with the family Bible. E\u0026nnndston has already become a model for other conimunities in which far and wide there are branches of the Edmundston bank and copies of its institutions, chie! of which now is its college to which youtbs, corne from far and near. And the man who dominates the college is, of course, the financial, overlord, because colleges are allways in need of money. If there are a few anachronisms i this picturesque -legend they are excusable in the nature of the subject. Sir Edmniid Walker is the clearing-house of civilisation i Canada. The mere catalogue of what he officially and unoffcia]ly is and lias been is almcst poetically significant: PIDENT Canadianî Bank of Commerce. Canadian Bankers' Association. Champlain Society (and Founder). Mendelssohin Choir of Toronto (honorary). VICE-PRESIDIENT American Bankers' Association. 1177",
         "Sir Edmund Walker CHAIMAN Board of Governôrs, University of Toronto. Guild of Civic Art, Toronto. Commission to, buy pictures for the National Gallery. Com.mittee to build the Art Museum of Toronto. BSankers' Section, Torontô Board of Trade. HOLDIER 0F TiTLE, ETC. Feilow, Royal £Ijociety of Canada. Fellow, Geographical Society. Companion, Victorian Order. Member of In~ternational1 Congress Arts and Crafts. Doctor of Civil Law. Knight Bachelor. MISCELLANIA Trustee, Toronto Gênerai Hospital. Director, Toronto Gênerai Trust Corporation. Mernber, National Battlefields Commission. Author of Works on Commerce and Banking. Author of Annual Message from the Canadian Bank of Commerce. At the sarne time Sir Edinund Walker is the economic advocate of the relatively simple life who neyer even got so higli in school books as a respectable coilege. We con over this category of titular achievements based upon lbard work and an active brain, tbinking always of one series of books by Samnuel Smiles-Succes, Thrifl. and Self-tHelp. Sir Edrnund does flot believe in financial slieep and academnic; goats. He drives thern ail in one fine flock. While the average financier in Canada is busy gatlhering bis wealth that presently he inay buy pictures, books, music, and places of honour on comn- mittees, Sir Edxnund is far busier weaving into one many-sided personality ail the forms of culture lie can get. V/ie most successu business men ini a new country make it their ambition to have a string of financial and business directorsbips, as long as the Ten Comnmand- ments, Sir Edmund sticks to bis bank and bis com- mittees of culture. When the average self-made mani 178",
         "Sir Edmund Walker sets his heart upon a Sioo,ooo castie in a fashionable annex to cram it with art ftuiture, paintings, and rugs, Sir Edinund gradually gathers unto himself here a picture, there a collection, now a new piece of furniture, and lives arnong tbem year by year ini the samne old- fasbioned elegant home which for niany years has been the social apex of St. George Street, Toronto. And though a great part of bis active salaried 111e bas been spent in wrestling with impecunious miflionaires anxious to in- crease their overdrafts at the bank, the most habitui aund lifelong banker in Canada bas permitted hiniseif the luxury of failing to, become a muilionaire even of the first degree. The flrst time 1 met Sir Edniund Walker he had just corne back from, what was to him i i904 a tera nova for new Canadian Bank of Commerce brancb banks. Indians, furposters, and railwaymen had gone over the great Canadian West. The Bank of Commerce bad bciped to finance at lest one railway into that country. Mr. Walker bad now seen it. On tbe way back be lad gathered sainpies of wbeat, whicb in littie sacks arnong bis bank letters be durnped out on bis general manager's desk, and with the cons-ummate tenacity of a miser over bis gold proceeded to, unfold wbat these wheats, meant to the economic, future of the great West. The interest- ing feature- of the newspaper interview was flot the wbeat, but the man wbo witb visional empbasis seemed to bave rummaged, in a Pyramid and found this fecund cereal locked i some dead Pbaraoh's flst and was now about to reveal the story of it to the world. When I- came to, write the story of the wheat the image of the perexnptoxy prophet who told it crowded the wbeat: into the background. In the world of economny Sir Edrnund. is flot so much the financier as the professor of bankring who expounds the moral law of stocks, change, and trade. Years ago this curious hornilietic quality came out in the aiw.ual, statement of the Bank of Commerce whicb, over the signature of Byron Wa]ker, took: on the character of a Presidential message to Congress. When that encyclo- 'E79",
         "Sir Edmund Walker poedic document appeared ini the newspapers, it was assumed that no other bank message would cover the ground with sucli a complete balance of the ethical qualities in trade, industry; agriculture, and finance. Those who, had the moral endurance to read it through were carried back in imagination to the simple econonics of the time when Cain killed Abel. Almost any day at noon the originàl author of this message to mankin - may be seen stepping into the bank Limousine that whisks the President and the general manager, and sometimes the assistant general manager, up to lunch at the York Club. Ini the depths of that closed car the figure of the President setties down until the long wbiskers lose themselves in the lap robe. Arrived at the York, the bank trio may be a good haif the company at luncl4. That neyer matters. Sir Edmund Walker is the patron ssint of the York. He was one of the secessionists fromn the Toronto Club. who banded together finance and culture-milionaires, magnates, and university professors-to form the new Athenoeum. And it was Sir Edmund who, in one of bis customarily neat speeches at an inaugural dinner, named the Club by quoting the limes from Shakespeare-whatever they are-that suited the occasion. Conversation there is 'usually discursive, from. the latest gossip just over the 'wire about war stocks to, the most up-to-the-minute information concerning the paloeolithic age. But with the Bank of Commerce party at the York the topic is usuallyý--banking; for that is ahl the time these busy mnen have to confer on matters which to the average depositor seem, to have ahnost the significance of eternity. Not long ago, among bis plethoric and homely recipes for abiding good rimes in a new country, Sir Edmund said: \"We should discuss less such issues as Imperial federation or better trade relations with the United States and give dloser attention to the humbler but more important detai]s of our business affairs, at home.»\" One might al-7aost call tbis a platform of Canada First. When the LiL\u003eeral party went mad over the Taft-Fielding ][80",
         "Sir Edmund Walker reciprocity agreement in 1911, Sir Edxnund, ini conipany with the present Minister of Finance and several other prominent Liberals, organised a party insurrection against this old faiiar bogey and pitfail of parties. Sir Edxnund's objections to reciprocity are not merely personal. There are times wlien lie speaks cdllectively, as the voice of the Canadian Bankers' Association, so, often reviled by the democracy. The socialist wing of the uttra-demnocrats cail the Canadian Bankers' Association a money trust, which from a few head offices in Toronto and Montreal control- the supply of money without reference to the actual demand. The average democrat says it is the hierarchy of the centralised banking system, which is sometirnes a bad thing for the progress of Canada, and should be replaced by provincial and local banks-3 ail over the country in touch 'with supply and demand-anywbere between Charlottetown and Dawson City. The hierarch and bis associates clain that the Canadian Bankers' Association is the backbone of Cana- dian finance wbich keeps tbe country econoxnically a unit and prevents boom conditions froni degenerating into financial panics. The genial cynic, with a very sincere achïiira\u002bion for the Bank of Commerce IPresident, says that Sir lttlSrmd Walker is the arcli-ego of the bierarchy; the mnan who by a covenanting tenacity to one bank, now the second in Canada, bas so personalised the bank- ing system. that he bas become the archbishop of bis own bank and the pope of the banking system. Why, lie asks periodically, does this autocrat object to restricied reciprocity in goods when ho lias no objection to a measure of reciprocity i money? Wlihen that question is asked, Sir Bdmnund xnay be absorbed in some problemn of art. How Sir Edrnund Walker began to be a more or less recognised authority on art, literature, archoeology, history, and universities one must answer by refusing to imitate him and confess that: one does not know. Ignorance to, Sir Edxnund Walker is néver bliss. He lias nover been satisfied to, get knowledge: lie maust always make knowledge tiseful. Artests, literary people, and 181",
         "Sir Edmund Walker academic folk are poor business men. It is the business of the financial, man, who, correlates business also to cor-~ relate art and learning. This Sir Edmund does with perfect naturalness. He neyer forced himself to take interest in art and its Indred subjects. He was bora with a genealogical interest in these things. His 'grand- father ini London was a goldsmith. Art technique camne as naturally to the Walker faniily, if ini a lesser degree, as it did to Benvenuto Cellini. The art-craft of his grand- father and bis ancestors became an intellectual quality in Edmund Wa]ker the Canadian. And in the crader environuient of Canada he bias worked it out naturally into a valuable asset, both for liimself and for other people. Artists disagree about Sir Edmund. Some say he is the sure friend of the struggling painter; others that lie is niisled by a bijdted enthusiasm, into, bulling the stock of one artist-probably a dead one; -some that lie is a real connoisseur; others that hie is not. \"\"My friend, Sir Edmund Walker, is a connoisseur,\" said Sir Wilfid Laurier, talking to a group of art workers when Sir Edmund was present. \"'He can tell you the fine points ini a 1,Âcture. I can only tell you wlien 1 like a picture without knowing why..\" No picture exhibition in Canada is qute complete witliout the appreciation of Si din.lsoiins are soinetimes irritating; neyer ignorable. Art under- stands that the chief banker of Canîada, as chief buyer for the National Gallery, is able to, spend several thousands a year on new cauvases-a siail percentage of whicli in actual value may be Canadian. No one lias ever heard of bis bolting into the studio of somne strug- gling artist to point huxn to the peak of Parnassus. Neither can any artist deny that lie is wifling to, see merit-by wliatever means he does it-in the work of some obscure painter at an exhibition. Sir Edmund is aiso a patron.of music. He believes ini good as opposed to poor mnusic, and in some cases may form bis-own independent opinions as to wliich is whicli. For several years lie lias been lionorary president of the",
         "Sir Edmund Walker fmnest choral body in America, and on two or three occa- sions weut with the singers from Toronto to, New York, Boston, and Chicago. He rnakes himself fainiliar with the works on the programmes i mucli the same way as he informs himself about literature, of wbich he has a considerable knowledge. In the Canadian Society of Authors lie is quite as proniinent as he is in music. Hé is leading member of peace associations, though not avowedly a pacifist. In historical studies again lie is an expert amateur, and lie lias made himself familiar with archoeology and geology to a degree that would give niany a professor of those subjectspointers ini co-ordinating enthusiasm. Ambition ini Sir Edmund lias neyer bolted into a plate-glass window. He lias neyer beén led away by sheer brilliancy. No great consuming idea ever robbed hin of sleep. His function is to hold tlie balance. And lie has temperament. Hie lias a quick brain that sees and estimates and co-ordinates while most men are xnerely getting impressions. While an average man is lamenting bis ignorance, Sir Edmund is shrewdly ac- quiring Just the degree of ready knowledge which makcer it possible to hold the ground lie lias got and presently enable hilm to get more. Those wlio, too intellectually indolent to think for tliemselves, outside their \u003c-,wn crafts, permit Sir'Edinund to think for tliem, will some day discover that lie lias made himbelf an almost invaluable factor in the broad. social development of a new country. If lie lias been made into an autocrat, let those be bla.med wlio have been either too lazy or too diffident to think out loud for themselves i bis company. And if any H. G. Wells ini sea.rch of a sociological novelty desires a new subject-let him examine what Sir Edmund Wý1-1l.er would do 'with bis knowledge of art, finance, and political economny if cast away upon a desert island with notbing but an axe and a box of matches.",
         "SIR ADAM BECK His political progenitors were Sir James Whitney and Niagara Falls. Had there been no cataract at Niagara, not even the political dominie of Ontario could have produced Adam Beck. The product of Niagara, according to Beck, is Hydro-Electric-farnil*arly abbreviated to Hydro, tabloided to, H.E., which is a somewhat exten- sive way of suggesting that there is a reair -masculine person at the back of the Hydro movement in Ontario. And there is: besides wbich Sir Adami Beck, having been somàewhat the creature and considerably the conun- druim of one premier, lias now become the perennial problem of another. Hie is the rninister of power. What else could hie do but exercise it? At New Year i916, wlien the whole country was off its normal guard over the war, Sir Adam Beck pranced into the civic electoral arena with bis scheme to build a network of hydro-radials and inter- urban unes ramifying over pretty much ail of south- western Ontario and costing ultimately $i4,ooo,ooo. A large majority of the municipalities included in the scheme voted to, have it. Suddenly the power mnister, who liad no legitimnate portfolio, who, had always 1\u0026een too adventurous and too iconoclastic to be cribbed cir- cumspectly in a cabinet, bec.ýme the real P remier of Ontario. ,This man is the son of a Pennsyivanian, who, in 1r855, settled in the part of the county of Waterloo whicli lie bimself baptised inito the village of Baden, afterwards making the burg famnous for bis englues and boilers, as early as the year 1878; at wbich tiine the son Adam had just corne to the age of voting. Jacob Beck's smoke- stacks and wbistles marked the town where young Adam was born and got bis early passion for the pro- blerns of power. Beck's boilers burned cordwood cut from tlie bush liard by, and young Adam watched the 185",
         "Sir Adam Beck ,engineers .ratnxing ini the logs that came out in steamn, smoke, and power. As a youth. he. attended the historie Rockwood. Academy, fainous as the college rnf James J. Hill. After- wards he went to, the granimar school at Gait, another power town on the Grand River, and when he had finished schooling, transplanted himseif to the smail city of London, ini the county of Middlesex, where he became a manufacturer i woodware. Beck was cradled i a littie diligent world of manu- factures. At every train-stop there wvas a miii or a factory or some place run by steam fromn cordwood, by the rushing mil-race and the dam. The cordwood era passed with the clearing of the bush. The coal era came in. Factc ries were now too big for w'ater-wheels. Steam po3wer was costly. The coal camne crealking across the frontier up froni Pennsylvania by the sanie route that in the early decades 'of the nineteenth century the Mennonite founders of Waterloo county came i their waggons to the country of no coal. Progressive men had burned down the forests. Nature, who used to, store up vast reservoirs of water in deadwood, mosses, and humus, to send it steadily trickling down ail sununer long on the well-fed river, now sluiced down the nielting snow and the sprig rains in great hurling floods that i id- sunimer becanie a dreary trickle over the pebbles like a tide gone out to sea. With nature's cheap power cnt off ini both cordwood and rnning water, it was a puzzle how to go on running the nuls and factories of diligent western Ontario with- out increasing the cost of production beyond an economic mrh.Pennsylvania coal was cheap-in Pennsylvania. W nitcrossed the bridge over the tumbling Niagara. to become Canadian coal by consumption it was an expensive conimodity to be cramming into furnaces where cordwood had once been so glut-cheap. Coal strikes and the recui:rent xnanoeuvring of the coal barons down in Beck's ancestral state mnade it obvions that cheap coal neyer would happen again. And not al the Government's -experts could locate coal i Ontario. 186",
         "Sir Adam Beck The world was then into the electric age. In the early and middle 'eighties London and ail the other bnsy littie towns in Ontario began to sputter with arc lights. The incandescent bulb came along. But this Iight was made by the use of Penusylvania, coal and therefore could not be much, cheaper than the old gas it was driving out; and as yet it was far too expensive to use ini operating factories. It was cheaper ini most cases to, burn the coal direct under steam boilers connected up with stearn englues than to bnrn it for generating electricity for dynamos that cost money to instal. It was jnst at the turn of the old century into the new when that part of Canada began to take into account the dynaniics goig to waste at Ni agara Falls. Here, where the Mennonite Jacob Beck had crossed the border ini .1855, was the site for a water-wheel which if set up might have made the fanions Ferris Wheel of a decade earlier seem. like a Christmas toy. The problem of harnessing Niagara, as it has been ,called; would alone have marked the change of nineteen to twenty in the centuries. Brifliant word-scapists began to, picture the fabulons cities of energy that must arise ,within the soiund of that cataract. In Canada the fiction neyer came to pass. Adam Beck had no vision of estab- Iished factories, along old Unes of railway with ail the population they had developed making a trek to Niagara. Scores upon scores of littie and middling-sized factory towns dotted ail over that part of Ontario miust stay where nature and the town-founders put thern. Their idustries must be kept Up. The man whose father had fonnded the village of Baden by bis iron foundries knew considerable about both power and municipal rights. There was that curions ýGerrnanîc strain i the Becks which made of the munici- pality or the bnrg a sepa.rate thing. Comninnities could .not: go to Niagara. The power of Niagara mnust corne to, the conimunities. In i9o3, when Niagara power first became a romxance in the newspapers, Adami Beck\u003e the M.P.P. for London, *was- asked by the Liberal Cabinet to be a commissioner 187",
         "Sir Adam Beck to mnvestigate this new problem. He investigated. In 1904 there was a psychological Union of Municipalities of which Adam Beck becarne the chairman. This also, like Niagara Power, was somewhat nebulous; but it gave promise. It was a practical public hobby which Adam Beck niight yet be able to ride as well as he and bis English wife rode t,-heir prize horses at tournaments under two flags. In i905 the Liberal Government of Ontario was itself swept over Niagara, and Adam Beck was taken into the new Cabinet of Premier Whitney as a memfber without portfolio. This man with the hobby of transmitted power and municipalities might be useful. Beck became a sort of auxiliary engine to be connected Up to the Cabinet ini. case of need. In bis own unencumbered imagination Hon. Adam Beck was a sort of one-man cabinet ail to himself. He seemed to have no direct personal ambition and not a symptomn of ordinary political craft. He knew litie or notbing about organising men or the psychology of an electorate. But he was getting to know Niagara power and the need of municipalities. .One year after his appointment without portfolio Hon. Adam Beck introduced the first power bill inito the Legislature. The iinmediate upshot of this bil was to- create the Hydro-Electric Powver Commission. The first business of the commission was to make the creator of it chairman. The inevitable duty of the chairman was from that time forward to become as far possible the Power Boss of-Ontario. That was inii 196. It was the beginning of a new decade which in January i916 was to see the Hydro- Radial policy of Sir Adam- Beck, the Power Boss, triumph i a majority of Ontario municipalities, involving the ultimate expenditure of at least $14,000,000 on inter- urban raiWays from Niagara. In that decade Hon. Adam Beck -made biniseif the psychic problem of Ontario. That Piccadillian :figure,. dress.ed so often ini a black cutaway, whiskting circum- stantially about the legisiative buildings, bec(--.ie farnilar to many people who as plain cabinet minister M8",
         "Sir Adanm Beck would not have known him. At horse shows, in public gatherings, on train platforms, he was pointed out by people who knew him froin his photographs in the newspapers. \" There goes Adam Beck \" became a conwion saying. He knew it. The people who said it neyer would have known any of the old Cabinet except Sir James Whitney. Sir Adamn has the kind of egotism that is content with Sir Adam's own good opinion of himself as the apostie of a popular econornic movement, and is largely indiffer- ent to the feelings of other people towards him, unless they liappen to hold authority which miglit interfere with bis plans. In the early days of Hydro-Electric lie courted public approval. Now that lie is established in the econon'ic affections of the people he lias become a; czar. Since the death of Sir James Whitney no one mn the Ontario Cabinet dares to oppose\" Beck. His heavy jaw, aggressively pointed chin, discontented, rather sinister, mouth, querulous aquiline nose. and impatient dark eyes are the features, of a near - Prussian who, tbrough the undisputed success of a public benefit systein, may be ini some danger of becoming more of an autocrat in one field tlian any private capitalist. No portfolioed zuember of the Whitney Cabinet could tell the day or the hour when Beck would tlirust this power problem n der the Cabinet's nose. The autocratic Premier neyer could say when Queen's Park would be staxnpeded with municipal delegations in the naine of Adam Beck wanting Niagara Power. Hvw to, make a great waterfall serve a province became under the Whitney régime a graver problem than how to substitute water for whisky had been to the Liberal Governients. Niagara Power was no longer a mere dreain or even an experiment. Towns adjacent to Niagara were taking a negligible fraction of Niagara Power. Toronto, 100 miles distant, was taking another fraction by means of the Electrical Development Company's Une. As yet these were but cobwebs tugging at the power of Niagara. Hon. Adamn Beck was advertising manager for the great cataract. The first hall of the decade i906.ài6 189",
         "Sir Adam Beck was devoted to getting one hydro - electric transmis- sion Uine to certain points within. a commercial radius from. Niagara. Adam Beck knew now that he had a bigger individual programme than any other Ontario minister. In bis formula of kilowatts lie had a specific which was capable of infecting industrial Ontario froni Toronto to, Windsor, and thý best part of more than a million people. By 1910 the fist hydro-electric transmission Uine was complete. [n October of that year the first transmitted hydro-electric energy was turned on at the town of Berlin, Ontario, when the Power Boss touched the button and in a triumphal speech uttered the following words to bis German-Canadian compatriots, some of whose smokestacks would soon be superseded by trans- foriners: \"It is fitting that power should be first turned on in the town of Berilin, the 'first to receive the finished pro- duct, the home of men of vision, men who peered into the future with confidence and called the first meeting of representative men together to consider ineans and ways of securing a supply of electrie power for manufacturing and other purposes. I amn proud to tbink that this is my native country. I amn looking to-day into the faces of men and women who are of the sanie ancestry as 1 amn, and grateful as we are of our ancestry and proud of our Fatherland, thankful we are, too, for this Canada of ours ini ail its greatness.\u003e' This rather clumsy speech was not the lauguage of a mian cnt out for the public platforxn. It was the speech of a paterna]ist to, whom these pioneers in hydro- electric energy were cbildren. The few years following were spent in working out the hydro-electric system. in detail by extensions of Uines and macbinery, not only in western Ontario as far as the Detroit River, but aiso in the city of Toronto where the Power Boss undertook to cnt into the field of bis private corporation rival, the Electrical Development Company. A second transmission Une was put through, to the capital of Ontario. Toronto street lighting was 190",
         "Sir Adam Beck taken out of private corporation hands and placed in the hand of the bydro-electric whose thousands of low littie liglits were strung into ait the dark crannies of the city in place of the sputtering arcs of the old systern. The Beck public utility machine, however, was flot allowed to supply power to the street raitway, neither to more than a growing fraction of homes and factories. But public competition, whether good or bad, had entered the Toronto field, and the people of Toronto were enabled to play games with the two systems. Now a storm near Niagara put the street railway out of business and left no lights burning. Again a similar Stormn put out the street liglits whlen ail the cars were running. It was Beck versus Corporation. And so it is stiil. The one-man public utility cor- poration is the competitor of ail private lighting and power systems over the most of Ontafio. It is the Beck propaganda that the consuiners should get the profits in a reduced cost for liglit, heat, and power. Newspaper advertisements, neyer agree as te, whether this is true or false. Beck goes on with bis scbeme of power produc- tion, because hie believes in it, and because lie believes also in Adarn Beck. When hie foisted the hydro-radial scheine on the municipalities in January 191i6\u003e he had corne to the point where lie would make hydro-electric: compete with ail systems of radial and inter-urban, limes in I' hat part of Ontario. Ris powver from Niagara should flot only light people's homes and mun factories, farmers' feed-choppers, and threshingr machines, it should also, carry the people and their produce from country te market and from town to town. Beck bas been accused by bis critics of being a Socialist. 0f sucli a visionary idea lie probably does not accuse himself. He is a public utility apostie who works against corporations for the sake of znunicipalities. To bim the Province of Ontario is a greater municipality. In that enlarged rnunicipality lie probably considers Sir Adam Beck as the burgomaster who, as the Power Boss, wiil neyer need to be Premier. He shouid cail it the Pro- vince of Niagara, Capital Kilowatt, in thae County of Beck. '9'",
         "I I t..",
         "VA'-. a",
         "SIR WILLIAM VAN HORNE WB shail cail him plain Van Home. No tatie ever became him. He was too prodigions. Ne stood for the illimitable. Having flung one railway across Canada and a line of steainships half round the world, lie put a highway of steel across the pineapple groves of Cuba; and lie was just peering like a cosmnic giant into, the worksirif a new world that no railway ever could traverse-when lie slipped off into it and is now wondering how to live witli- out that Gargantuan great body that was everlastingly singing magnificats upon earth. . In plain words Van Home died in Montreal, Septemnber i9'5. An eight-]ine poem camne out in the November University Magazineý-pub]ished in Montreal--ent-£tled «\"Sir Williamn Van Homne.\" Paradise Lôst in a nutsheil. Van Horne's whole 'tremendous 111e since lie wças a quan-y l1ad down in Ilinois was a barbarie poem. Hie began to live in Illinois and did a 111e work there before lie wasý forty. I-e camne to Canada and in his forties began to build up the greatest transportation system in the world. Having seen that from \"'two streaks of rust» to something like a $2oî0,ooo,ooo corporation, lie swnng down to the South Seas when bis blood had cooled a few degrees and began to modernise Cuba. But the life Van Homne had worked out in steel rails. freiglit-cars, and steamships was to hlm only the overture to the real opera. The fragment was the C.P.R. Van Horne\u003es magnum opus was bis philosophy of life, which at the time of bis death lie had somewhat reduced to a mass of notes iu 1the; drawers of a big desk in Montreal, intending, as lie told the writer, to makze a book of it wlienever lie found tixue after bis conquest of Cuba. Van Home was the magnified emblem of physical man working out a spiritual life. He huxuseif gloried iu all the 193 N",
         "Sir William Van Home physical facts of living. He was a human locomotive eating up coal, belching forth smoke, chucking con- tinents over bis shoulders, and eternafly trying to get to the end of something that he miglit begin it all c\u003ever again. There was nothing gross about Van Homne. But if lie had lived in the age of Rabelais, that feculent genius would have made of hlm, ainother Gargantuan epic. \"The trouble with us liere in Canada,\" he said to the writer, \" is that we don't sweat enougli. Down in Cuba 1 sweat my boots full.\" Van Home took a pagan deliglit in unusual sayings. He had a horror of the conventional. Witli less practical humour lie would have been a first-rate liumorist. There are many stories about Van Home, some in print, others Homeric. One wbici lias neyer been printed narrates liow on a long journey from Vancouver to, Montreal lie could find no one on the train with whom to have a gaine of poker; so lie commandeered tlie con- ductor and played with hlm most of the way from Winnipeg to Fort William. There was a rule on the C.?.R., whici lie had himself made, that no conductor was to, engage in cards wbule running on a train, under penalty of dismissal. At Fort William the conductor was promptly dism-issed and another taken aboard. Wlien lie got back to MÔntreal, Van Home gave the cliscliarged conductor, whom lie had beaten at poker, a position in tlie liead offices at a better salary. If that was flot liumour-what was it? Van Home was a- veteran pokerist. josephi H. Gilder tells in the Minneapolis Beliman liow the railway genius sat at poker with a number of proininent directors, al of wliom lie beat to the gross extent of a thousand dollars. Afterwards, following bis custom 'to donate ail bIis poker- eamings to public cliarities, lie made out cheques for varmous amounts whici lie forwarded to, a certain hospital in the narnes of the other gamesters, sent a Eist of the donors to the local newspapers, and rnarked copies of the printed list to eacli of the victins, noue of wliom liad ever given to a liospital in bis iffe and ail of whom were very indignant, etc. 194",
         "Sir Williamn Van Home What is that but the pagan rollicking of a .twentieth- century satyr? Again, taling to Moberly Bell, publisher of the London Times, Van Homne, a connoisseur ini mushroomns. observed solemnly that most victimas of toadstools died on Wednesday-because they invariably picked the spurious mushrooms on Sunday walks, had themn for supper, and died just ini tixne to be decently interred by mid-week. Balzac could scarcely have invented a grinimer fiction. This mani, be it remembered, was one of those dynamos of achievement; and an average dyn;ain,. whether hunian or electrie, is ulsually flot very huinorous. In bis sixties this practical jalle never deserted Van Horne. Mr. C. Lintern Sibley relates 'in Maclean's Magazine how Van Home managed to build bis railway across Cuba. As the island wýs at that ti m*e still under rnilitary occupation neither the Cubans nor the American govemnors could grant a permit; and by the Foraker amexidment ini Congress no public franchise could be granted under military occupation. Van Home quietly went ahead buying up. private domains for a right of way, built the separate sections of the railway, and waited for a chance to link them up across the comnxunity roads. The governor refused the links. Van Homne went to the governor's confidential adviser, a personal friend of bis own, and confessed bis predicamnent. \"Advise him,» said he with a Spbinxian gleam, ini bis alrnost occultic eyes, \"to grant me a revocable Penrmilt. Thus the counsel advised the governor. \"I1 amn pleased to grant you a revocable permit,'- said the govemor to Van Home. \"'impossible[ \" replied Van Horne, 'Quite pre- posterons 1 I The governor insisted. Van Homne expostulated. The governor reinsisted. Van Homne gave in., The links were built over the roads. When the railway was done public enthusiasm for the project made it a permanency. 195",
         "Sir William Van Horne It was three years before bis death that I first met Van Horne in his huge Montreal home on Sherbrooke Street. Hie was then mnidway on bis Cuban epic, but for which that day of pouring rain he might have been slopping about in rubber boots painting sketches at Minister's Island, St. Andrew's Bay, N.B., bis suxnmer home. House-cleaners were busy about him. is art gallery, that loomed up in great vistas of colour the moment you entered the hallway, was al sheeted over like the counters. of a department store at closing tiine. is custornary home office was topsy-turvy. He was dictating to bis secretary in a big room, upstairs crammed with japanese carven woods and ail manner of Oriental curios. He rose from behind bis flat -desk and somnewhat clanimily shook hands. Now that hie was up I noticed how he was dressed; ail in black-miorning coat, black- striped trousers, prodigio-tis waistcoat, and a nonchalant black bow. lie defied tailors. From some remarks that be made during a four-hour conversation, I imagined be might even consider dispensing with clothes. He bad a head that on an average man would have looked toppling. But bis body seemed ahnost too huge for bis head. Not a fat man; just big, bard as a hammer, driving himnself about with the exuberant energy of a young Indian. Hie seemed the personification of anti- inertia. Mierely being a gentleman would have failed even to amuse such a man. Hie was an overpowering physique and a restless brain among works of art that frém cellar to garret cost hlm a couple of million dollars, and every item of whiàch hie knew better than the stations on the C.P.R. Those black Carven woocls froin the Orient seerned to grin at hlm reverently as though be were sorne blustering genial god. Noisily he yanked at a drawver in bis desk and drew out a box of dusky Cuban cigars. \" I hope you smoke,\" hie said. \"I usually do.\"y lie scratched a tiny match and held it out as thougli it were a blazing pin. And it seemned at once as though here was a being who, but for the accident of civilisa- 196",
         "Sir William Van Horne tion, might have togged hMrself in a goatskin, and with a pipe of Pan lu his fingers proceed to discourse upon any subject under the heavens. 1 began with an obvious, almost insuiting common- place. \"«At your age, Sir Wiliam-\"-2 lie almost grunted in disdain. \" You don't seem to rest much,\" I ventured. Hie prostrated bimself plethorically upon the vast surface of a sofa. \"I always rest,\" he said--staccato. \"1 neyer worked lu My life.\", \" Then whatever would you cail it? 'What interests a man can't be cailed work,\u003e' he went on. \"I have always been interested. 1 have rail- roaded most of my life-because 1 liked railroading. I don't cail it work.\" He puffed wvith colossal energy at the Cuban cigar wbich had the audacity to go out. It pointed upwards like a tiny toy funnel. The talk which followed was the behemnothian note upon the perfectibiity of man; compounded of Darwin, Hierbert Spencer, and Van Horne. It deait with the seven-or whatever nlumber it may be-ages of man. \"Ail men are bomn lazy,\" he said, lighting his cigar again. lie demonstrated this point lu philosophy by show- ing lu successive stages how by the spur of necessity a man works away from inertia to, energy, from that to habits of exertion, on to strength and power, finally to the subconscious stage where his mechanical acts are alinost instinctive, which according to hlm is the age when a man becomes the really effective head of any great system requiring vast co-ordination. A few years before he told a visitor, who, had gone to see him about some of bis pictixres for a boan exhibition, a few facts about bis boyhood. One of the facts that iliustrated Van Horne's gospel of inertia overcome by energy was bis borrowing of a book descriptive of the geological and archoeological history of Illinois. lie had '197",
         "Sir William Van Horne but a week or two to keep the book. An omnivorous lad of fourteen, with a few coppers he had managed to, scrape up he went to the littie store and bought sheets of foolscap, on which tili the paper was done he copied the book, drawings and ail, and afterwards finished thc copy on brown wrapping paper. That was an example of how Van Horne neyer worked. That boy might have becore-anything but a railwayman. But in choosing railways lie got hold of a grand trunk programmre in energy. The story of how lie worked up through ail the grades of railroading in bis native State tiil he becarne the head of a great Arnerican system does not belong to this fragmentary appreciation. It was a mere prelude to bis vast work in Canada after the age of forty, when he turned the broad of bis back upon the land of bis birth and sniffed like a giant at the cold continental stretches of a new nor'l-western world.- , Neither does the building and the equipping and the rnanning of the C.P.R. and the rnaldng of the -C.P.R. into a world-farnous corporation belong inherently to any casual glixnpse of this mnan's personality. In Van Homne's own pbilosophy that was ail sumrned up in a brief phrase. ««I arn a Canadian,\" he said explosively. The idea siniply had to have room. IFrom lying alrnost prone across the broad flat of the sofa lie struggled v-p and peered like a tremendous gargoyle out of bis own amplitude. He blew a huge puif of smoke and batted it aside because he could not see tbrough. \"I arn a Chinese-wall protectionist,\" he said. \u003c' I don't mean merely in trade. I mean--everything. 1'd keep the Arnerican idea out of this country.\" You could almost fancy tbis self-exiled American saying to hirnself- \" Now 1 wonder if this chap won't consider me a paradox? \" Suddenly an impulse seized hirm. \"Roach\" li'' e shouted tbrough the great house. \"Roachi » 198",
         "Sir William Van Horne The voice was flot a roar. It was a pantheistic scream. Quickly bis secretary came ini. \"'Will you excuse me a moment? \" he asked the visitor. \"I1 want to dictate a few letters. Don't go. I want to talk to you after I have finished.\" For the next haif hour Van Home wrote wilkh a poor littie pen on one sheet of paper while he dictated staccato sermonettes to his secretary about how a certain hotel interior at one of the railway termini in Cuba should be built, how to get the material, what to pay for it. And he left nme silently to revie.w the strange case of this muan who, having got his main life impressions in the United States, had become such a thorough-paced Canadian. Quite clearly the C.P.R. had done it. To have built that road would have made a Canadian out of the Germian Emperor. The foremost Liberal statesman of those days predicted that the road would \"'neyer pay for its axie-grease.\" No such railway had ever been built. No such man had ever risen up to build it. The C.P.R. picked Van Home more wisely than anybody knew. Even the nman himself had to fail back on a theory to do the work. He believed in achieving the practically impossible. Tinies were bard, money scarce, immigration nil, trade and manufactures in their child- hood. The main obvious business of the C.P.R. was to keep British Columbia from seceding to the United States by flinging 2000 miles of steel highway across a prairie regarded as a second Siberia and mountains considered irnpassable. The whole of British Columbia could have been bought for less money than it took to build the C.P.R. Van Horne knew it. The situation interested hlm. In i882 what the east knew about the west was less than it cared-and that was next to nothing. The geography of the C.P.R. was almnost sardonic. Hundreds of miles of the road must i-un through the rocky jack- pine desert norili of Lake Superior. A thousand miles was surveyed- through a prairie, much of whose fertility was somewhat a matter of conjecture. Hundreds of 199",
         "Sir William Van Horne miles lay over mountains thousands of feet above the sea. There was the choice between the Kicking Horse Pass and the Yellowhead, which lay beyond at the head of a land whose -farming capabilities were known only to a few white settiers and n.umerous half-breeds. By the lling of the dice the southerly pass was chosen; a shorter long cut through a better-known country. By a similar fling, much of thé C.P.R. lands were chosen along the Saskatchewan valley-in hope. Other men understood the difficulties of the C.P.R.: Strathcona, Mountstephen, Sir Sandford Fleming, and John A. Macdonald. None of them, knew the titanic task of building it as Van Home did. The great road was built by the grace of God, the pluck of a few people, the persistence of a politician Premier-and Van Homne. The man bimself had told incidents of the huge opera bouffe ini which lie was the chief actor-when faith, hope, and sheer bluff, Were sometimes bis chief assets. The day when Sir Donald Smith drove the last spike ini the Rockies there was a photograph. taken by some one with a novelty known, as a portable camera. The second most significant figure in that photograpli is a trim-bearded, burly-shouldered, top-hatted personage in the background with somewhat the smIùg satirical smile that afterwards appeared on cigar boxes labelled- Van Horne. What happened to the C.P.R. after 1885 was mainly how Van Homne switched from being a genius of con- struction to an a]mnost greater genius in operation; when C.P.R. crawled up year by year onl the stock market; when its stocks were bought al'over the world; and when C.P.R. posters becaine better known in the com- mercial centres of Europe than the literature of the Bank of England. Van Home finished bis dictation about staircases and grilles in Havana and disniissed bis secretary. He took up a fresh little pen and lie began to drive fuxiously over fresh paper as he left me to smoke another cigar and gaze at the curios. Presently he pulled out a drawer and heaved up a bundie of notes. 200",
         "Sir William Van H-orne \"'No,\" lie said as he chucked them in again. \"I won't talk about that to-day. Some day 1 shail write it in a book.\" That was his philosophy, which had bothered hlma more of late than his Cuban railway-for fear lie miglit finish the .railway and perhaps flot do the book. Rie sprawled opulently on the sofa again and lighted another cigar that went out again and again as he talked; this time of men and events, particularly remnembering bis old adversary Goldwin Smith, whom. he regarded as mucli too lean a man at the waist to be capable of great hunian concepts. The professor believed in railwayri running north and south for commercial union'purposes; regarding Van Home as a somewhat Bamnum-like figure ln the world of international politics. And it aniused Van Horne to remember how Goldwin Smith's conti- nientai theory had gone to its grave when the C.P.R. was the chief palibearer. Another eminent personage about whom lie talked in a far different strain was the Gêrman Emperor, whom he regarded as the greatest emperor of ail tinie. Hie spent best of an hour eulogising the commerciJal and strategic qualities of the Kaiser, whom lie hoped soma day to meet; quite atnused at how once the Kaiser had stolen a mardi on hlm by getting information about a pulp and paper company of which Van Home was President-of wbidh flot even a copy was sent to Van Homne. One hesitates to imagine what Rabelaisian epithets Van Home must have applied to that kind of knowledge after the outbreak of the war. !«'Mm,\" lie said, trying to ligît bis Havana again. \"'No, t1-here will be no war with Germany. The great wars of the future will be lu trade and commerce.\" Looking back at this cocksure prediction by a man of ahnost uncanny prescience ln niost mundane affairs, one can only conjecture that Van Home was forecasting what would be the fate of civilisation if lie himself lad been in place of the Kaiser. No wise man lu any country was worse disiilusioned by the war than Van Home. 201",
         "Sir William Van Horne whose almpst sudden death came just a year afterwards, and who, but for the war, rnigh± have been writing bis philosophy now. The Oriental emtlems ln the big room. blurred into, lumps of shadows as Van Horne's cigar glowed and pal- pitated to the swish of the rain on the wvindow. Regard- less of tixue he swung into discussions of art, about which he knew as much as le knew about railroading. Under that roof there were art treasures worth by bis own estiniate at least two million dollars. One room contained scores of paintings done by himself. He had learned painting from Nature, who had taught hlm, bis weird humanistic philosophy. Above ail things in a pic- ture he admired-passion. Intellect lu art he disdained, saying that a great artist should be more or less of a fool. In similar strain he spoke about music; of the sym- phonies of Beethoven and of Tchaikowsky-as though in a vagrant mood he -might: have strolled below stairs and played one on the piano. Language did not escape hlm. He had read Spencer's Philos\u003ephy of Style and quoted from. it to prove some point which I have forgotten. Spencer tauf-ht: Van Horne a good deal-perhaps empirically, as an acadexnic might say. Van Horne would have made a grand study for Spencer, as an example of co-ordination. \"The world is ruled largely by humbug,\u003e' he yawned prodigiously as be got up to, take a turn about the daxk room. \" We need a better word than ' bumbug' to express what it means. I shail have to luvent one lu my bookp The visitor intimated that it was time to go. \"Time!» he repeated hugely. \"What'stirne?» He led the way downstairs, switching on the lights as he went. Down lu bis art gallery two rampant Scotch collies leaped upon hlm. like wolves. He wrestled them like children. The man should have had young lions ti play with. He talked to bis dogs as thougli they were huinan. And as7 he stood at the door peering out into the wet darkness the rain came down with a sudden fury. Even the ralu seemed to kçnow-Van Horne. 202",
         "E. WYLY GRIER, R.C.A. Ax early 1916 issue of the Christian Science Monitor of Boston contained a character sketch written in almost impeccable style and adorned by a line drawing portrait of the late Goldwin Smith. The legend under the draw- ing ran: '\u003cFrorn an oil portrait by E. Wyly Grier, R .C.A., in the possession of John Ross Robertson.\" The article had no signature; but one naively surmises that the description of Goldwiu Smith and bis manor was the work of the mnan who made the portrait. For E. Wyly Grier is a suave compend of art qualities ex- pressible in portraiture, occasionaUlandscapes, criticisms, and public speeches. He does ail these tbings about equally well, and with a positive finality of finish that leaves littie to the imagination. For twenty-five yeaxs Grier bas been doing oil portraits of Canadians. Ini that time he has accumnulated enough photo-prints of portraits to decorate a good-sized ga]lery and has casually gathered knowledge of men sufficient to write a good book of studio recollections. Grier is by no means the oniy good portrait painter in Canada. He L-suot always even the best. But there is no other mnan who, gifted -%vith an early de-;ire for landscapes, turned bis brush into a far lessi imaginative but more profitable field and kept at it year by year until he had become recognised as a standard producer cf public and private portraits. Grier seeras to have been bomn with a necessity of formai expression. If he ever had an uncouth episode he seerns to have forgotten it. Born lu Melbourne, he was educated at Bristol, studied painting at old St. Ives, went to Paris and to Rome, diligently acquired a facile technique along 'with a good general knowledge, and at 203",
         "E. Wyly Grier, R.C.A. the age of thirty or thereabouts came back to Canada, which he had first seen as a youth. Had Grier ever inscribed a motto on bis studio wafls it should have been \"Quite So.\" He is a master at the' art of gentlemanly agreement and of precise expression. No one seems to recollect the time when Grier ever lost bis temper. To lose tempey is to forfeit one's balance, and Grier bas a rather exquisite balance to maintain. He is an artillery major, a master of amateur gardening, which he prosecntes with tbrifty circumspection, a suffragist, an art critic, a dabbler in singing, and a culti- vated Christian Scientist who used to be a flot too orthodox Anglican. Such a punctilious admixture of unapposite ini- gredients in some mien woulid have acted like the fizz of a Seidlitz powder. In Grier it is a sort of unstable equili- brium, wbich becomes a habit. He bas neyer been a terrible protestant. 'A'measure of amiable conformity bas characterised most of bis work. One suspects that bis numerous expert dilettantisms have been a sort of safety valve that kept hixn frori art violence. A man is after all a walkzing portrait of bL-,belf. Grier has even done bis own portrait in crayb)n, by the aid of a lookmng- glass, and a good one. That kind of seif-composure is only possible to one who has a vein of serious jocosity. Grier appeared at a restaurant luncheon axnong some friends one day a few years ago when there was a trifle of tight money in the studios and elsewhere. He was garbed for a wedding. To some of bis friends' comments he naively asked, \"' Yeý;, and where do you think I got these tronsers? At Thompson's for a dollar-frfty.\" Nobody but a master of temperaniental. equipoise could have joked about a dollar-fifty pair of trousers at a fashionable wvedding. With bis neat sense of humour he miglit have developed into facile and decorous caricature. He bas neyer done so. He bas stuck to bis agreeable transcriptions of other people, eminent and otherwise; to, the frockcoat, the si]k bat, and the gloves, the uniforms of the worsbipful grand master, the banker's tweeds, and the gubematorial regalia. Hie has become a sartorial :204",
         "E. Wyly Grier, R.C.A. expert on the value of clothes which he depicts with a legree of comfortable and very ingenious ecstasy. One imagines that he sometimes treats a man's features as a sort of naturai clothes whicb. it is bis business to make fit the man where nature seems to have been careless. Grier is flot an intense realist. He bas too mucli native politeness and senis- of the decorative. Ris habituai effort is to inake a sitter pleased with himself, bis clothes, -the painter, and the world at large. Witli great deftness lie bas beguiled sucli men out of themselves into a more pleasing ensemble of expression. Ris own obvious enthu- siasm-as though you were the flrst subject lie had undertaken to portray for a nionth past-gives you a sense of pleased importance. You do not rea]ir'ý the effort of the artist. That is part of bis art. Grier neyer permits hirnself to appear fagged or blasé. He often holds up the bird that the child may smile at the camera. Any random, selection of Grier portraits shows a higli average of strength, fldelity, character, ease of expression, and as mucli native force of temperarnent in the picture as may be consistent with the Ind of hyper-conventional portrait that seems to please the average man. But as a mile he is proscribed by the practical and polite ruies of bhis craft from depicting any startling psychic realitiLes. Rlis portraits are fine gentlexnanly conformities; seldom or neyer great realisms. They are first-rate likenesses; rarely revelations. Technically well handled they are not always sub]imely simple in detail. Exaggeratioiis, eccentricities, cal'zat3re, over-intensity, and profound egotism, are interesting humai defects that seldom, creep into bis work. Ris greatest defect is bis lack of little imperfections. Ferhaps this is a real virtue in a portraiteur whose prime business it is to please individuals and mun a risk of flot satisfying the critics or the crowd. The wonder is that Grier keeps ail these elements balanced so nicely. Now a.nd then lie seizes some fresh character that boots in from the north and ini a fine fit of ecstasy transcribes that, man with ail bis out-of-doors tang and virility. Thereafter lie relapses into the effectively prosaie with 205",
         "E. Wyly Grier, R.C.A. as much poetry as circuinstances permit, touching up characters that have always puzzled the camera into, as much as possible of a rediscovery. And bis char.acterisations are always good. He lias few ups and downs. flluminative accuracy is a virtue with Grier. What Morris did historically for the western Indians Grier has done and is dloing for the average mani li the e ist in the portrayal, of both individuals and types. In so doing hé betrays his fine practicai sense; he admits that art is flot a matter of fine frenzy so much as diligent and. as far as practicable inspired rendering of every- day subjects; le suggests that it is flot the business of the man of the world to gape at the adorabilities of art as for art to put itself at the service of other men whose interests are of the practical sort that make art possible. 'When Grier wearies of paint he betakes hiniseif to one of the nurnerous hobbies with which he las garnished the xnonotony of a portraiteur's, life. He will give you a recipe for pickling caulifiower or making the best use of a summer camp; sing you a well-toned song or make you a circumspectly admirable and witty speech; take part li a play or discuss votes for women; talk about artillery i which he some time ago got bis majority or write a critique for a newspaper. AUl these are necessary to Grier and for the most part easy. For many years he has been one of the pillars of the Ontario Society of Artists of which for several. successive years he was a most effective President. But if E. Wyly Grier ever perniits bimself the luxury of a great primitive sensation in art, he does it in camera- or by accident you may corne across hmn i bis studio when he is at the height of it. And at such times he is very Iikely to say to, bimself--\" Oh confouxid the average portrait!» ' 2o6",
         ". SIR WILLIAM MULOCK SiR WiLLIAxM PiuLocK once paid a thougand dollars for a street-car ticket, which, he still keeps as a souvenir of a highly sentimental occasion. That was in the winter of x91i5. Sir William was, as he stiil is, chair.inan of the ?atriotic Fund for Toronto and the County York. When the returns were coming in this car ticket was one of the donations. Who sent it nobody knew. Sir William proposed an auction for the ticket and himself led off. His bid was briskly raised hundred by hundred until at the thousand mark bis wealthier -competitors observed by the gleam, in the High Chief Justice's eye that lie intended to have the ticket if lie had to seil the f anuy plate to get it. Sir William is a middling old*man ini years, and lie has behind hlm, a big story of achievement ini political business, in law, ini learning, in the judiciary, and in common old-fashioned citizenship. But he has always found time and inclination for the straightforward, impulsive things of life that in some respects have made hlm a radical in temperament, while lie lias rernained a straight Liberai in politics. One evening trudging up a dark snowy court ini Toronto behind the gloomy police station to an arts club of whicli lie is a member, lie observed a horseshoe li the snow. He picked it up and carried it to, the club where it stili reposes without a legend, the token of good luck picked up and cast off by an ambulance horse and picked up by the Higli Chief justice. You imagine that lie stlll looks over bis riglit shoulder at the new moon for good luck; still believes tliat if the new moon lies on its back so that the Indian cculd bang his powder hom on the tip it will be a wet moon; and that if sait is spilled at the table, mother mnust throw a pinch 207",
         "Sir William Mulock of it over ,her left shoulder to ward off iii luck in the house. Frequently the eX-Postmaster-General and the author o! Penny Postage for Canada in the Empire pays a visit' to the Arts and Letters Club of whicb, he became a member in 1910. If there is a head table he takes some pains to avoid it. H1e seizes. some friend and compels hlm to sit down before a plate of cold meat. In a very little while bis own plate of meat is empty. Being an autocrat -in practice, Sir William wouldaslecom d the president of the club, to get hlm a fresh helping, but he takes bis plate and biniseif goes boldly to the kItchen. Some would cail this mere democratic bluntness. [t is much deeper. Bluntness and brusquerie may be i- vented as a pose. Mulock's direct methods are tbe out- growth of a primitive characteristic. The root idea li bis character is getting' at the farts; what is the matter and 'how can it be remedied, if need be reorganised. Wben be discovers from experience that one belping of meat is insufficient, he remedies the matter by going straight, flot only to the root of the matter, but to the source of supp]y. Public affairs may be disorgaffised or unorganised; the commuunity may be bungry: well then let some one lend a baud to adjust the matter. But waste no time; go direct to, the point, get the remedy. There are hundreds of people in Canada who can bear testimony to baving been forcedto contribute to Mulock's inteliectual welfare. H1e is a plain highwayman; a bold Turpin on the beaths of experience. H1e is coming along the road. You stop to apologise for being bit. \" Not at aIl,'\u003e be says cheerfully as a bush-axe. \"What mnade you corne this way? Where are you going? Wbat do you understand by flot being aware? Is that a state of mind or a trait of your character? You say it is a depressing day. Just what do you understand by that? \" On several occasions 1 bave noticed Sir William work 208",
         "7~S4",
         "Sir William Mulock his bland pistol gaine of getting knowledge. One of his chance victixns was a clerk of the weather to whom he propounded a lingo of questions that nmade the weather man for the turne being a witness on the stand. Al bis life Sir William had been reading weather reports; sometimes quite mystified by the erudite lingo of the newspaper scientist. As Vice-Chancellor of the Uni- versity of Toronto for twenty years he had a perfect right time and again to match over to the observatory on the edge of the college campus and cross-examine the entire staff. But he had neyer found it convenient, so, he had stored up a grist of questions against the time when by chance he niight encounter some weather man -and here was the occasion. Introduced to a young explorer from Eskimoland he at once heckled hlm for positive, reliable, and strictly ethnological information concernlng the Eskimos; details of how igloos are built, what form of religion is inherent in an IEkm, and what were the women like? And this is no habit of mind superlnduced by the BenchP which claimed Sir William only a decade ago and got hlm too old to change hlm. He brought with hlm to the High Chief Justiceship ail the inquisitorial qualities he has; and m'any a witness and counsel know it. Once he adjoumned a case peremptorlly; some railway case, information of witness somewhat vague-hales hum and counsel doWn to. the railway to demonstrate by ociilar proof how such and so took place. Having got which he reassembled the Court and proceeded with the case., Impatient with counsel, lmpetuous and severe with witnesses, and heavy with adrmenishment to the depraved prisoner, it is doubtful, if a more humane judge has ever occupied -the Bench in Canada, one who would be less swayable by social position or made more lenient by wealth in the dock. Mulock is far too old-fashioned a morality to be warped in bis intentions regarding justice, -however impulsively on the Bench *he may occasionally go wide of the mark ini mere sentiment. Brusque as a 209 O",
         "Sir William Mulock MarSi wind, he is apt to tread upon the corns of money- bags conventionalists, academic bigwigs, judicial digni- taries, and even consequential statesmen. He asserts himself with the trenchant: emDhasis of a bushwhacker splitting rails. And to get to the keynote of bis character we must go back to the pine stump fe*nces and the plougli-handies among which he was bon; son of a widow mother, hired out to tlie neighbours in York County, up at daybreak choring aznong the cattie, loading hay, grading turn- pikes with a wheelbarrow and.shovel-the roads he now drives over with his automobile. A raw youth he went to Toronto University, with cked-out savings; back to the farm after lie had graduated with honour-s in modem languages; down to Toronto again to study law--cooking his own meals over a lonesome fire in bachelor's rooms on Melinda Street; tutoring by niglit, afterwards made a niglit master in Upper Canada College; finally graduating in law -*th a fi.rst-hand knowledge of what it feit like to carry the brain-hunger of the farm into the world of books. He founded a law firm which stili bears the name Mulock-that of lis eldest son. By and by lie realised one youthful ambition when lie bought a farm for the sake of the quiet life. Many of bis clients had the in- grained muck of York County on their boots when they came to the office. That was all in their favour. Where Mgulock's pile-driving energy and brusque exarnination awed a client bis simple geniality won hlm. Besides lie was a farmer ainong farniers; planting orchards and raising cattie, offering prizes to farmers-a yeoman of the yeomanry to whom, the city was one thing and the land a better. Senator of Toronto University, he becanie Vice- Chancellor, regularly taking bis $400 a year fees for cal\u003e- bure and tlie like; but because lie liad a carniage of bis own or could walk if lie chose, remitting the money to charity. He was always peremptory about tliose fees. 210",
         "Sir William Mulock In :1882 he becanie an M.P. elected by the bootleg farmers whose first names he knew as well as those of their fathers. One of his first remedial bils was an act to protect farniers frorn being swindled by patent-holders. That 'was the time when the faier was a simple person; alasi ne longer. Another of his pro-agrarian measures was an act to prevent trains belonging to ridli corpora- tions froni blocking the public roads, holding farm waggons from, mnarket by the hour. Always an autocratic bootleg democrat, inl 1894 he radically moved ini the House to prohibit members of Parliament from travelling on railway passes. In that lie was defeated. The year r896 saw hi a Cabinet Ministér; one of Laurier's college of Premiers and experts. The recon- structive task that was handed to this vigorous, reform- img energiser was to reorganise the postal department. Here began his labours of Hercules; mountains of abuse and of privilege, of waste and inefficiency, of over- nianning and underworking- and lie moved thern because he had faith ini himself, in the Laurier Gàvern- mient, and the country. He set eut to convert a million- dollar deficit into a surplus. Hie did it. He became the despot of a system, reaching out gradually by dog-train to Dawson City just beginning te, go on the znap. How lie administered this chaotic system is a matter of economic history. But lie was as thorougli as a farmer's flail. Privilege, nepotism, needless machinery, and absurd expenses were brushed off the table. The farmner was in the Postmaster-General's departinent. Hie was there to create a surplus and te reduce the cost of both pro- duction and cousumption. Wlien lie took office a letter te any part of Canada or the United States cost three cents, and a letter to England five cents. lie said it was toq inucl. lie 'would create a surplus with less cost te, the consumer. Witli hlf a continent to cover, the idea seemed worthy of Don Quixote. But on Christmas Day 1898, two years and some months atter Mulock liad worýced on the postal deficit, the cost of a letter any- where in Canada and the United States becarne two cents, 211",
         "Sir William Mulock and a week.later Imperial penny postage becanie a fact. It is admitted that the Imperial penny rate was due as mucli to, Mulock as.to, any other member of the postal conference. With the penny postage the revenue first -dropped, then rose; the surplus increased; the country was rnarching ahead and the stars in their courses fought for Mulock with bis penny rates. The Pacific Cable was another pet of bis. Then caine the Labour question. One thing that struck Mulock soon after lie began to operate the postal departinent caused him, to invent strong language. The post office unlforms in use ail over Canada were the products of sweatshop labour that turned over fat profits to contractors. H1e abollshed the government sweatshop as it applied to the post office- though it is flot on record that with increasing seamstress wages lie raised postal salaries. H1e becaine ipso facto the first Minister that ever made labour an active issue in bis departinent. Out of this personal pertinent investigation came the Labour Department conducted by Mulock blimseif as the first Labour Minister. Labor Omnia Vincit-he bas always believed it. Soon after lie becaine Postinaster-General, when at least one big-brained member of the Cabinet was taking dance lessons ini Ottawa, Mulock hired a professor of Frenchi conversation to corne to bis horne at 6.30 every mornlng. H1e furbished up bis old knowledge of book French into an instrument of expression, able to talk in Frenchi to Frenchi postinasters and deputations and to, Frenchi presidents whenever lie went abroad. For nine years he czared the post-office department. In 1905 lie retired from the Cabinet and frorn the House and was made a Judge. Hie had travelled. mucli ini Australia and considerably in Europe. Hie had made a postal deficit into a surplus and created penny postage, taken a big hand at the Pacific Cable, organised a new portfoliô, retired from the vice-chancellorsblp of Toronto University, and had mnade bis 200-acre fiaim in the town- ship of Ring produce great apples, remarkable prize short-liorns, and: beautiful poules. 212",
         "Sir William Mulock Since that time Sir William has been a judge, a student of real estate, and a manager of public benevolences. As a plain citizen lie has, become more conspicuous than ever. In politics lie is reminiscent. The defeat of re- stricted reciprocity in i911 jolted hlm only less than it did Sir Wilfrid Laurier, bis eminent friend, whom he. élaims as his guest whenever Sir Wilfrid goes to Toronto. His plain practical citizenship, however, is a bigger fact than his political principles. His personality is of greater interest than his decisions on the bencli. When lie goes on the patriotic platform there is nobody who can make a better-even if more eloquent-patrotic speech. For when he speaks there is behind the speech a big, warmn-hearted, brainy mani, who has been and stili is a doer of things. At bis country home in North York Sir William is at the height: of fine, simple hospitality. His farrn thirty years ago wvas a plain, poor but picturesque tract of land in the his. He has madý,- part of it a great park of groves and gardens. The trees were planted by himself. H1e lias a large grove of walnut trees descended by the third generation from, wa]nuts planted by hlmself. H1e bas apple-trees that years ago, through the amiable offices of' a Ger.-nan trade agent, came direct fromi the Kaiser's garden. He has vegetable gardens where he sonietimes goes abroad to muncli raw peas ont of the pod. %i house is the rendezvous for scores of people who have nothing to do wvith what was once bis constituency of North York. There he dispenses the best of hospitality in a simple style that iniglit have been ini vogue centuries ago, with a cordial dignity that permits no artificial. restraint. H1e glories in recafing the old days of the farmer when lie picked small gourds from the garden to mould the heels of socks bis mother was knitting for the family. He delights to stand under the trees and explain scientifically how a tree keeps the air under it cool. He is just as fond of good-huxnoured stories that thrûw liglit on the parliamentary foibles of his day in politics. 213",
         "Sir William Mulocik More than ail, -he expresses an unending interest ini plain people, public practical problems, and the ethics of simple -unaffected living.. With ail bis génial faults we shail find it a matter of great national regret to dispense with Sir Williamn Mulock. .And we hope that the next lime he engineers a patriotic auction sale, lie will invest bis tho'usand dollars in a two- cent stamp instead of a street-car ticket. -214",
         "~-zEEz~ C. A. MAGRATH A SASKATCHEWAN half-breed--call him John Thunder -once discovered that lie could buru wood in the mud fireplace of bis shack without chopping the wood. How lie did it makes the burden of a story told by C. A. Magrath who lias met a large number of half-breeds in his day. And as Magrath sat before one of the biggest fireplaces in America a year or two ago aiid told the writer about John Thunder, he spun the story out with slow circurnspect emphasis, flot missing an item of luxurious detail, yet telling it with the simplicity of a man to whom primitive western life is as f amiliar as a square meal. \"*How do you suppose that half-breed got over the difficulty of chopping wood for bis fireplace? \" lie said in a cloud of smoke over the teacups. Give it up,\"- said the company. \"Well, being a philosopher,\" went on Magrath with a cavernous but genial drone of a voice, \"lie knew the logs were too long to go luto the fireplace and atlow for sliutting the shack door. He was like most other hlf- breeds I ever knew. He would have walked two miles to catch a cayuse in order to ride the pony haif a mile and save himself the trouble of wallg. So he heaved up a long pole; liauled it up the roof, and raxnmed it down the flue. The fire burned off as inucli fron -the bottoma as it wanted to; and as the fire burned, the pole kept coming on down till by and by it was al burned. And tliat's the way the half-breed solved the problem of vis inerlia.\" The once member for Medicine Hat could tell stories like this enough to maire more than a book. He lias spent most of bis life lu the land of the half-breeds. In his business of land surveyor lie lias travelled xnost of 215",
         "C. A. Magrath that vast ,country. He knows ail its moods and its mediSvaflsms. That lie knows most about the dry beit is a mere accident. He spent -a number of years irrigating the c.rid lands east of Calgary; the land that creeps down close to, Medicine Hat, away from, the foot-his of the Bow. He liad the educated brain of an engineer and the hand of a man who desired to, see civilisation grow by increasing production. For just about forty years this giant of the prairies witli the slow voice and thie odd good-liumour in bis point of view lias been solving problems for the West. In so, doing lie lias become as true a westerner as tlie lialf-breed wlio rammed the flrewood down tlieflue. Magrath is a genuine westerner of thie later Victoia period before bell-boys and cow-boys bùecame million- aires. Ile chain-ganged a million acres of the praire before lie dabbled in thie price of a corner lot. Me roanied thie prairie trails wlien buffaloes were on tliem. He was in the land of tlie bunchgrass alrnost as soon as thie mounted police went in. Ile saw the moving caravans of red men and studied tliem up dlose; costume, colour, and language, Fiegans, Sarcees, Bloods, Stoneys, Black- foots, and Crees, knowing tliem ail apart and obscrving them, witli the shrewd, indly eyes of the mani wlio miglit have been an ethnologlst. But Magratli was neyer anything that could be ended witli an\"« ist-.» R-is fatherwas, an eminent matliematician in Ireland. Magratli neyer a]lowed that to be reckoned against him. He knew that whatever bis fatlier liad known of the integral calculus, neyer would keep hlm, from. uecoming a poor citizen if lie kept the mediSval piflosophy of rarnring firewood clown tlie fue. Civilisation was a in l tlie making. There was no\u003e railway. He could wait. While waiting lie worked. He liad no particular pet ambition. Tlie country was large. He wanted to know it ail, or as mucli of it as possible. What lie miglit manage to Possess in fee simple was of far less importance. The day had not come for the land-grabber. Magrath trailed al over the prairie with- 216",
         "C. A. Magrath ont being able to discover more than the log-shack nuclei for towns and chties yet to be. MedicinLe Hat was not even named when he went there. Lethbridge was yet to be born. The foot-his billowed up out of the dun levels of the dean prairie, up the smaoky ribbons of the rivers into the far blue haze that thickened into, the marveiouols colour of the RocikIas, whose peaks from the birthplace of Lethbridge or old Fort MacLeod lie could count by the dozen. It was a wonderful land. Magrath loved it with the passion of a crude, practical poet. The buffaloes vanished and the C.P.R. camje-in the firt decade cf Magrath. He deplored, the passing of the \" moostoos,\" but so far as we know neyer tried to, hold up the \"'Oogarnous \" Donald A. Smith and Van *3orne 'with their conquering transcontinental that cut clean tbrough the dry beit where Magrath had intended to build great dams and reservoirs whenever it waz worth while so to do. The railway clanked on up iiito, the bills and the hoary inountains on down. to the blue sea beyond. Chief Magrath, irrigater of dry beits, mnan of proble-ns to solve with the tripod and the scale of inches, less confounded than the red men over the spectacle, as good as p-aised God for the good time com2ng. Magrath always had a long-seeing eye for the future, because lie had a sympathetic outlook upon the past. Thre great land lie had trailed so hopefully ahead of the railway and in uine with the redcoat mounted police was to him then as it stili, is the greatest land in the wvorld. He could see in it more than Cecil Rhodes saw in Africa, or G\"irouard, the Frencli-Canadian engineer and builder of dams, saw in Egypt. Thre uriith-west was a greater land than either. It was an empire of Indians, half-breeds, cowboys, furposters, mounted policemnen, cart-ireighters, dog-drivers, whisky-smugglers, and nis- sionaries. But the other side was cozning. When law and governrnent were established after the flare-up of the-tribes in the Saskatchewan valley Magrath 2:17",
         "C. A. Magrath was in politics. He was much needed. In those days many of the .old-timers had Noah's Ark ideas about the West. They conceived themselves to be Israelites to. whom the Lord had given a new land. In many a growing town on or near a new railway these Rip Van Winkles croaked over the menace of immigrants and colonist cars and down-easters, hanging out business signs on the streets of the furpost and cowboy towns. Magrath was neyer one of tzhern. -As inveterate an old- timer as most, knowing the whole country better than most-, he believed in making the most out of the inevitable and working to bring it about. If the half-breed burning bis poles down the chimney must go, the men of machinery and ploughs and stoves and electric lights must occupy their room. The old epic was done. A new one must begin. So Magrath sat in the old non-party Parliaxnent of the Territories at Regina, hobnobbing with Frank Oliver anà Flood Davin and Haultain, help- ing to govern an empire much the same as five villagers rule a township in the East. Lt was an old way, but there was as yet no other. Problems such as the old north- west councillors had only dreamed in vague outiue were to, come blustering in; new railways, more parliaments, fresh towns, old trails turned into turnpike roads with ditches alongside, littie sehool-houses and rude churches axnong the shacks of the half-breeds, keen-eyed business men beating up new trade instead of the old furposter and the fre.e -ht-cart trader, real estate experts such as had once nearly demoralised Winnipeg: ail the bewilder- ing complexity of a rampait juggernauting civilisation seizing the buffalo lands with the tentacles of colonist trains. Magrath was part of it ail. But he saw it al with the placid eye of experience. He was ini ail the great movements, of men and tnoney and machinery that transformed the prairie from what it had been in 1878 when he first w7ent there to what it became ini the twentieth century when lie took rank among the oid- timers. How tbings did movel No country had ever been 2,18",
         "C. A. Magrath transformed at such a pace. More things happened in the first seven years of the new century in the land of Magrath than he had seen in the twenty-two years before 1900o. But even the evolution of rt y politics and the real estate craze failed to, carry this big-footed giant of the old days off bis feet. He was no man to be de- liriumised by the grand illusion of wealth for ail men without labour. He knew the West better than the twentieth-centuryj experts of Wallingford calibre. He believed in its future more sanely than the tralisters who caxnped on the survey limes of new railways, along trails he had buckboarded and cayused ini the,3eighties. No doubt Magrath, like many other idealis-*ig characters, bas been mistaken more than once ini bis co-ordination of events ini the West. No douabt the move- xnents of whiàch he dreamed and for which in bis own patient way he worked were taken hold of with greater energy by railroading and colonising geniuses who had not even seen the West when he was one of its pioneer citizens. But there was no0 man of mark on the prairies ini the grand decade of development between 1901 and i911 who had a clearer vision of what the West reaily was, what it used to be, and what it niight or-should become as a part of Canada and the Empire. So we foilow Mag-rath on down to i908 when he was first elected to the House of Commnons, mnember for Medicine Hat in Ottawa; which was just about the timre that Kipling scudded through these engineering dam- lands of Magrath and said of Medicine Hat with its gas- weils that it had \"ait heUl for a basement.\" Three years only he sat for Medicine Hat. He carried to Ottawa the colour and swing of the free West as singularly as did Flood. Davin or Frank Oliver; but he was neyer bypnotised by the experts on Parliament Hill. Chair- man of Coriservative caucus though he was, he was no blind-eyed partisan, and neyer permitted himself to become converted to the blasé macbinery of Parliament. Ottawa was fuit of devices which he only haif under- stood. Parliament and administration were a jumnble of 219",
         "C. A. Magrathi ingenious 'rnechanisms that to hlm seemed clumiy, ini- effective, and inept. Re turned over ini bis brain many a scheme to reorganise governinent in actual adminis-,. tration. He dreamed while other men worked the machinery. In 1911i he found himself bereft of Medicine Hat a3 ak constituency. Then he began to work on bis adminis- trative epic of reform. So, one day he sat by the fire- side, fled bis pipe, and scherned out the new business cleaxing-house way to, run a country without bedevilment by too xnuch politics and red iape. When he got weary trying to convince bis com-pany what it aul amounted to, he changed the subject and taiked with slow poetry about the old furposts, the vanishing forts, the precious historic landmarks ail over the West that in heaven's naine people should, labour to preserve for the sake of what, the country had been, and to keep it what it miglit be in the new time cd'mhg. And he told the yamn about the half-breed raxmning the pole down the fireplace flue, tucked bis manuscripts about administrative reform into a huge pocket, and got Up to go. Somewhere in bis luggage he had the type- written MSS. of a book on Canada; probably also a lecture or two. He was going to Ottawa. He would see somebody; do sometbing; go back to, the West-and one of these days time might show that he was no mean prophet of the older days. 220",
         "SIR GEORGE FOSTER FoR nearly forty years now Sir George Foster has been holding the lanteru while Mr. Average Canadian chops down the elm tree with the fat coon in the top. He knows the exact height and angle to hold the lantern, so, that the chopper can see; but bis own face is quite ini the dark. This is flot to, accuse our Minister of Trade-aLnd Com- merce of obliquity. Sir George Foster is a big citizen of Canada. Ho has been a cabinet minister under five premiers, Finance Minister under four, member of Parlia- ment since 1882, a higher critic since 1879, and a chronic objector since lie was old enougli to, teacli Latin and Greek ini the Baptist Seminary at Fredericton Junction, N.B., not far from where lie was born. He lias scolded in public more than any other living Canadian. Ho lias pointed out with thie actunen of an expert diagnostician just what was, lias been, and now is the matter with the body politic ini Canada. And he lias neyer ceased to romain the most unniagnetic big-brained man in Canadian public life. He lias tuxned the lantern of higlier criticism on Canadian public affairs ever since he began to be oui chief national lecturer on prohibition of the liquor traffic. And he lias himself had more critics among both bis political friends and foes than any other man wlio has a sanely constructive view o! our affairs. The persistent pedagogue is not usually popular, unless ho is occasionally blind in one oye to, the human irmities -of bis flock. Sir George Foster has always been a dominie. What a tremendous Baptist preaclier he. would have made I The pulpit lost in him, a great expounder. Parliaznent gained a superb critic. Some- times one fancies hlm. a cynic who. long ago despaired of enlightening Canadian people-including other paria-",
         "Sir George Poster mentarians. Again he seems to be an inteilectual enthusiast who, having -mastered sonie doctrine, is determined to propagate it in the teeth of ail opposi-, tion. Now and' then he has loomed up as a plainly' disgrantled expert, who, in - order to spite the rest of mankind would withdraw into bis political laboratory and let the world do without hlm. But because he some- how has a hankering for the business of pedagogy, Foster stays in the public eye and brilliantly continues to tell us with cold physiognomy and impassioned logic what is the matter with our citizenship. Did any one ever see George E. Foster smile when he is talkng in public? Did any camera ever quite catch bis fine ferocious frenzy when he is roused to the climax of some moral argument by analysis? No, Foster is always inexorably and fervently serious; and when he is aeronauting to the height of a grand synoptical argument he neyer cates what cameras, reporters, or common critics may choose to say about him. Rie is the only man in Canada who with a searcblight knowledge of eve-nts bas neyer closely studied other men; the only political moraliser we ever had who hirnself habitually became the object of moral compassion; and the only eniinent if flot great -political speaker who remained without the slightest capacity for political, leadership- except Hon. Edward Blake. Five years ago a Liberal politician from one of the mining districts of Nova Scotia sat in the palmn-room of the Toronto Club and comxnented upon a forlorn picture he had seen during the parliamentary session just closed. There had been a public investigation into, the status and statistics, of certain trust companies in Canada. Hon. George E. Foster was president of a company whose affairs seemed to be in some sort of predicament peculiaxly interesting to.those of the Liberal faith. \"When the investigation was over,\" said the Liberal politician with inipressive pathos, '\u003c1 watched George E. Foster leave the House. It was a dark, drizzling night. The melancholy figure glided down the steps into, 222",
         "Sir George Poster the fog. Ris head was alrnost buried in his shoulders. Ris hat seemed to droop over bis ears as lie hoisted bis umbrella. The fog and the blur of the lights swallowed bim. And I said to myseif, ' That's the exit of Foster from the public life of this country. He will neyer be. heard of again iii Parliament.\u003e \" For a man so dramatically dead and buried the Hon. Minister of Trade and Commerce is an exceedingly buoyant personage. This Cassius of the Cabinet seems to be possessed of a sort of unphysical vitality. As a mnere corporeal fact lie somnewhat resembles a con- certina. He may sit for an hour on a platform, com- pressed into the lackadaisical folds of his clothes, thin spidery legs crossed, lean spindly armis folded, a scant- bearded tableau of despondent inertia. But wait. It is Foster's- turu to speak. The looso clothes corne out of their crumples and hang ini sad limes about the cadaverous, stoop-shouldered figure. He begins-just talking ini a thin pallid voice, thumbs, hooked into his vest pockets, looking dejectedly at the crowd as thougi lie wished they had ail remained at home. .Looks-like many other things-are very deceiving in iGeorge E. Foster. If you should corne back to the hall i five minutes, the yawners would be ail alert, watching a.nd listeriing to the spare figure on the stage who xnay be pulling invisible beil-ropes of oratory or whacIng one liand with the other in process of driving home spike nails of passionate logic and didactic appeal.. There is neyer a floral offering ini any of Foster's elo.. quences; scarcely even a figure of speech; no cere- monious gesturing. He is a mian without form-but flot void. N~o, Foster is a very ft mati; full, to overbrimxrnng with whatever subject lie chooses to expound after the manner of a Roman trurnpeter. Every syllable, winged, tailed, or finned with argument, goes on its way into the intelligence of the crowd mucli like one of those curions hemi-sexual protozoa, seen through the scientist's micro- scope. And lie is neyer lost in mere bardic language. 223",
         "Sir George Poster \"Speak, to, the audience! 1 shouted an impatient admirer who was losing some of Foster's argument in a public hall. Foster was expounding gospel truth about the war' to the people on the platform and those beblnd hlm, ini the choir gallery, turning bis back on the audience. He had forgotten where he was; fancying bimself back -*n the flouse of Comnors with bis own party at bis back ýthe party lie bas always tried to enlighten. 1.Poster was the first mian whose voice I ever heard li Parliament. That was some years ago, when he was still the maxi who led ail great debates on the Conservative side, snapped bis fingers at the young orators Whom. he bossed like page boys, rather ignored the Opposition leader, and held the party at bis back in a mass of thumdering applause. He was taIdng about Liberal patronage-mongers, corrupt politics, and the low ebb of national life-ail the' vonmonplace alments, that mere diagnosis f ails to cure. No mani ever took a hand li our politics who, with a po'werful brain and a copious tongue was quite so well able to, twang the dismal lyre. Foster got the reputa- tion.years ago of being a confirmed pessiniist; largely because of bis manner of speaking, which is entirely without plausible graces, studio poses, or genial struts. Foster must have an antagonlst. He must convince, beat down opposition, scarlfy, repudiate, .po,-,nt the finger of mockery with a sort of cold creepy laugliter. Then lie is happy. Tblrty years ago and more this maxi was admitted to, have exceptional, ability. There was no Grit i the House who had flot a casual wholesome dfead of hlm. Sometimes the Tories criticised hlm. Some of my earliest impressions of public men were visions of tbis -lean didactic prophet ripping up some fipancial illusion of the Liberal party. Hie always seemed to be mixed up with budgets, fisheries disputes, squabbles over reciprocity, and the more or less economic: affairs of a country which durlng bis early career li politics was spoonfed on treaties. Whenever Richard Cartwright 224",
         "Sir George Poster brouglit down a Liberal budget, Foster was ready witli a pack of poisoned arrows. And in.the days after John A. Macdonald,tlie chief interest in Parliament was theannual buil-figlit between these two masters of- political. irony. Pertinaciously moral people used to predict that with ail bis great ability Foster neyer- would rise to real emnence. Hie seemed to pay no lieed. Hie believed in lihuseif. He took a lugubrious joy i cliastising other sinners. When John A. Macdonald passed out Foster miglit have been expected to Iead the Conservatives. But lie lias neyer led them--except in tlie flouse. Nobody e'ver wanted to follow Foster. Hie liad no obvious ability as a leader. For one thing lie -had no comfortable tricks, illusions, or pleasant vices. Hie seldom, cared to be genial. fis company was chflhig. He liad no atmosphere. Tlie party was useful to hlm mainly as a background. During two Premierships after the death of Macdonald lie stayed at bis post as Finance Minister. In the third lie lieaded a rebellion. During the golden age of commercial expansion after the in- auguration of tlie Laurier régime, this master of sad- eyed invective rose to tlie lieight of bis genius. There was littie ini the mere prosperity of Canada under a Liberal régime to deliglit Mr. Foster who would have preferred to see tlie National Policy get the credit. Sometimes it seemed to him as if even Conservatives were stupid. Mr. Borden lie welcomed as leader of the party without embrace. And for years Mr. Borden let Mr. Foster lead tlie.party ini the flouse while lie led it in tlie country. Tlie.arrangenment suited Mr. Foster who took a gloomny joy in succeeding without popularity. Not for liim, the liandslialring, baby-kissing éclat of tlie country scliool- bouse. «Poster kissing a baby on tlie platform would be a caricature. Low-browe\u0026- politicians niight lme up tlieir friends at the bar. Foster preferred a cold jug of water or a cup of weak tea. fie lias often seemed to be a sort of pinnacular morality built upon complaint. If there were no politîcaisàins- to -scarify wliat was tlie use 225 P",
         "Sir George Foster of being in politics? Somebody must be the perennial Jereniiah. Nobody in party or Parliainent was so con- genially disposed to such a cornfortless rôle as George E. Foster. \" My honourable friend opposite\u003e' wasý always in need of a corrective. When even bis friends grew weary of the tireless didactic vivisections Foster sometimes surprised them by hatching up a treniendous interest in some cause that gave him a chance for action on a bigger stage. Ris pro-Chamiberlain itinerary i Great Britain in 10 was an outburst of a new synthetising Foster. For Weeks he went about spreading the doctrines of Chamberlain among the English, when nobody identified with that cause was bette? able to inspire enthusiasm. When he camne back to Canada he expo'unded bis views on that subject. He delivered a rnasterly exposition at. a noon- day luncheon in Toronto, at the close of which an admirer said- \"Well, George, if 1 had a head big .enough to make a speech like that I'd need a different sized bat from. yours.y Foster snuiled. coldly. He would as lief bis friend had jbected to something so that he might convince bini of error. Be bas the faculty of universalising bis interests ini a particular way. Foster would as soon speak -about the evolution of the baking-powder era in China and japan as about the manifold sins of Liberals or the short- comings of littie Canada-ites. Be can, if lie chooses, talk as easily to niiners up ini the crags of the Rocies as to the conifortable citizenxy of bis own foggy St. John down on the level, of the Atlantic. Hie can stand up in New York or Washington and build up a cumulative discourse on the importance of Canada among civilised, nations, quite as well as lie can ta]k to the people of Great Britain about the undeniable future of Canada lin the Emapire. It is not on. record that Sir C-eorge Foster ever made a poor speech anywhere on auy subjiect. In fact lie 226",
         "Sir George Poster speaks rather too well. He can make a blue-book by exposition as fascinating as a poem or a play. Hie takes a consuming delight: ini humanising our statistics. Even Cartwright, the master of commercial irony, was neyer so, able to illumine dry facts and figures into visualised realities. He bas elevated the secondary department of Trade and Commerce into a position of importance challengeable by none except those of Militia and Finance. Had he bee-n a really disgruntled expert he might have resented the appointment of a political novice like Sir Thomas.White to the portfolio of Finance because he was a financial business man. Foster took the second-rate department of Trade and Commerce with the intention of maling it into a great cleaxing- house of national expansion and energy-which he is now engaged in doing. And the war has taken hold of Foster. He goes to, bed with the war and gets up with it. No Canadian bas uttered more sensible and rousing tbings about ihe war than the Minister of Trade anad Commerce who is far too much obsessed with the cost of the conftict to get a clear vision of what it %vill, mean to Canada when it is over an(: the second expansion of Canada begins. George E. Foster has lived tbrough two distinct periods of Canadian development and bas taken an active part in both. The tbird will probably outive bis public career. When he retires there will, be a gap in the 1Iarty ranks that can neyer be filled by a mere party maxi. Foster bas always been an individualist; aloof, re- peilent, iinassimilable. There is no mani in the party or in the House witli bis intellectual grip on public affairs and the ability to express it--except those older mren who were trained li the saine periods of Canadian development. And he is in some respects much the strongest man i the present Cabinet. 227",
         "AUREOLE SUZOR COTE WHuoEVERi glibly ta]ks about a Canadian school of paint- ing may as wvell expound the typical music school of Europe-which contains nine-tenths of ail the good music in the world. There neyer lias been a Canadian school of paiters, and there neyer eau be. What, after ail, is a Canadian painter? That question has, neyer been successfu]ly answered. It works out to the following grades of compleity:- CuAss 1 Cî.Ass Il Born in Canada. Born anywhere. -Living in Canada. Living i Canada. Interpreting Canada. llnterpreting Canada. CILASS III Ct.\u0026ss IV Born in Canada. Born in Canada Living anywhere. Ulving in Canada. Interpreting Canada. Interpretlng anytblng. You naay repermutate these as you like. But the determination of what is a Canadian paiter must take ito, account, at least, these four groups. And when you have specified the group, you nmust subdivide again it-- Anglo-Canadian; Frencli-Canadian. To the casuai connoisseur who gets a glimpse of some Canadian canvas abroad tbls latter division mnay seem superfluaus. Canadian painters and people find it quite fundainental. There is a race-expression hi paint even more remarkable than i literature, music, or politics- except i so far as literature implies language. There :329",
         "Aureole Suzor Cote are painting idionis as subtie as the difference between 'charmant \" and \"charniing,\u003e ' \"très bie. and \" very well,\" a shrug and a sentence. Aureole Suzor Cote cornes into Class 1 of the Frenchi- Canadian variant. He was bon in Artha1ýgka; lives in Quebec province; interprets the country of the St. Lawrence-and is both lineally, natively, and temperamentally a French Canadian. What he is as a creative artist involves a consideration of his own individual personality and bis work. Broadly lie belongs to, that temperamental group whi. seize eagerly upon what is next, nearest, or in- digenous and convert it into as mucli as possible of the universal. But, of course, one rnay find painters of that type in Ontario. With a difference. The painters of Quebec live for the most part either in Montreal or in sorne smailer place further north. They are always, next door to, the northland., The painters of Ontario-more than ha.lf of tliem in Toronto-when they go further afield than the county of York for landscape effects, usuafly trek two hundred miles north into the rock lands of north Ontario, or up to Ste Agathe, P.Q., north of Montreal, clown the St. Lawrence, or out te the prairies and the Rocky Mountains. The Quebec painter steps out of bis studio on to, the bank of the St. Lawrence, which contaips haif the art of Quebec, takes a train a couple of hours into the north country, or if lie chooses lie goes no further than somne littie village chockful of archaic simplicity, quaint dorniered houses, and pictur- esque people with a maple sugar bus-h on the outskirts. More Quebec pictures of surpassing merit are caugit: just across the way or down the river, and are, there- fore, a more obvious mixture of familiar images anid big subjects than the work of the saine class of painters equipped with as good temperament and technique in Ontario. No doubt here and there oue finds iu Ontario painters who. get similar intirnate effects iu their big- subject canvases to the best painters, of the St. Lawrence. But these again are the exception. Ontario artists 230",
         "Aureole Suzor Cote approxiniate more to the English, Dutch, and Belgian schools whose influence they frequently have to ob- literate before they strike their true métier of expression. The modem Frencli-Canadian painter who goes abroad, goes, as a rule, to Paris, and there lie flnds the saine racial atinosphere in a higlier degree into which hie was boni and i which lie got the inspiration and- the material for bis earlier instinctive work. So it is that Ontario painters produce a greater variety of modes, nioods, and atmospheres, and ini general a more com- plicated set of motifs: Qnebec painters approximate more each to the work of the others and inject more intimacy into the saine epically bold and big subjects. Since hie was a bounding genial lad in the village of Arthabaska, Suzor Cote has exhibited the average Frencli-Canadian character in a high key. Cote is a fine ecstati. physique wvho spiritualises bis enviroument with great ease. He began to express himseif by decorating littie Catholic churches. Here again is a fleld closed to the Ontario painter who leaves it to the professional decorator to fresco and panel the bouse of worship. Any littie tin-spired churcli in a Quebec village is a miniature simulation of a cathedral, on whose wafls a fancy-free young artist may find a canvas for lis crude but ardent symbolisms. Angels and saints, martyrs and cherubs aie always indigenous to, these little sanctuaries. Suzor Cote knew enough about these beings to render them in paint long before lie took the trouble to study Michel- angelo. But be was not preordained to become a churci frescoist. No, there was a bountiful out-of-doors riglit under the eyes of young Cote in bis own beloved Quebec. Still a young, man lie went abroad-to Paris. And that is the half of another story. While a very young person Suzor Cote had been a choir lad. When lie grew up lie could sing masses and troll chansons and bang out big resonant songs in bravura style. H-e had a basso-baritone voice that led bim, to hanker for the glamour of grand opera or the equally seductive post of 231",
         "Aureole Suzor Cote cantor in aicathedral. He coiXld sing Les Rameaux with fine dramatising fervour. Hie swept himself off bis own feet with the heroieC.strairis of \"O0 Canada.\u003e He knew thue mass solos of :Gounod and some of the operatic. arias of Bizet. And when he went to, Paris he had as lief as flot study the art of singing to bring up that voice of bis into an organ of art. But the voice by over-exertion and too littie pre- liminary art cracked and baffled hlm. Hie -gave up the singing idea and plunged into, paint. Hie attended the Ecole, National des Beaux Arts under Bonnat and the famous Julian Academy under Lefebre. It was ail French. Hie wanted no0 other. There was to, him no great allure- ment ini the dykes of Hoiland or the interiors of Laren. Hie wanted no low tones, no0 foggy subtieties, no dreary vapourings and melancholy moods. To Paris he added travel--covering a great part of Europe. To paint wel\\vithout knowing what to avoid by travel one must be a great geniu-s-, to which Suzor Cote makes ne0 pretence. But he kept bis brain-pores open. Hie toured without any greater prejudice than that of the Latin temperamnent, wbi(;h is happily les addicted to, bigotry than some others. Back in Quebec he could see those almost braggingly beautiful landscapes down the St. Lawrence resolve them- selves into forms of composition with a melody in the lines and a subtie harmony in the colouxs and a big bold sweep in the drawing. Hie had no end of inspiring snb- jects. River and forest and headland, marketer and sugar-maker, priest and weaver, miner and woodsman, fisherman and hunter-they were just waiting for a man with a.kodak in bis palette. Suzor Cote went at them with the fine frenzy of a boy at football. Always im- petuows, sw*ift, anid seizing he seldom. waits- to let a thing get \" sicklied o'er 'w~ith the pale cast of thought.\"- is painting speils action, the ardour of the morning, the keen-eyed breathless haste of the moose bounding tbrough the brush. What faults, he bas ave so subtly wound up with these 232",
         "Aureole. Suzor Cote obvious temperarnental virtues that they m'ust be dis- covered by analysis. A painting of Cote's neyer fails to arrest the attention. His colours alone compel admira- tion; the brilliance and the dazzling, if sometimes exaggerated, use of the prinia-ies in a land where colour contrasts are often too startling for the lover of greys and neutral tints. One may flot always admire bis composition, nor be always convinced by bis mastery of Uine drawing. But it is neverpossible to miss in one of bis pictures the pardonable joy of living and the ecstasy of paint. He makes a poor list of sad subjects. He is hiniseif too exuberant for sadness. He seldom reverts to low tones: there is too -much of the blaze of noon and the aboriginal mingling of bright colours in nature. He is not profound. But he is amazingly virile and. interesting. He is young. Pro- fundity may corne later; but if neyer, one has no regret concerning this master of \" embarrassment du riches \"in paint. When bis ]andscapes become a bit over-intoxicant one may get a satisfying delight from bis hunian figures. Here Cote is a big delineator. He knows the value of modelling; for he bas done a considerable deal of strong but srnaIl sculpturings tbat show how intensely he bas realised the value'of bones, miuscles, and ligaments, the crinkie of queer clothes, the wrinklings of time on the face, the subtie warp and woof of wear and tear on the lufe of man. Suzor Cote is flot the only sensuous depicter of Quebec life in paint. He is surely one of the ablest, most virile, and compelling; and bis work even up to the age of forty entities bim to a place aniong the interpreters of a part of modem Canada. But he belongs to no0 school, of Canadian painters; except in so far as the French- Canadian group may in themselves be cailed a schiool- wbicb is a matter for painting experts to decide. 233",
         "SIR MAX AITKEN ONE of our denatured Canadians loudly proclaimed, in a Canadian newspaper office a few years ago, that he would marry an cair's daughter in Westminster Abbey. In saying so he was probably conscious of imitating Warren Hastings and Lord Rosebery. But lie camne precious near carrying out lis threat and has been-cso far as can be obse-ved this side of the Atlantic-in seini- aristocratic obscurity ever since. Most of these adventurous souls, of whom the riews- papers keep any account, go into politics. A zuiajority of thern bécome Unionists, speak often on platforms-- sometimes quite badly, sometimes wel-write books, engage ini social reform, get taken up by the aristocracy, perhaps themselves acquire tities along the way. They establish thernselves, ini big country houses or begin to spend their declining years in club-land, cantering down Piccadilly, dodging about Westminster, taking swift runs across to Canmada, dined and wined and sent back again after they have told us in this country how exceed- ingly -weil we are doing considering our limitations of opportunity. Véry littie of this platitudinous programme is char- acteristic of Sir Max Aitken, who at present may be reckoned, as the most interesting and influential of ail ex-Canaians i England. In fact, it seenis doubtful whether Sir Max has ceased to be a Canadian, but if he should corne back to Montreal he migit: find the setting somfewhat amateur and a bit too experimental to one who has worked himself into a facile and con- genial rôle among the lords of Empire. One speculates-if the more or less, d-ibious prospects 235",
         "Sir Max Aitken of Six Max do not include a seat ini the Lords. A baron- age would neyer overwhlh him. Ten years hence he wiil be weil along towards -fifty years, of age. 0f al younger Canadians he bas been the chief of those wbo accomplish the totally unexpected. When lie solicited insurance and did secretarial work in Halifax, this son of a diligent New Brunswick parson surely neyer ex- pected to become the chief niergerist of Montreal before lie was tbirty. Shortly after lie becarne a Canadian nillionaire, lie abandoned, Montreal, where lie played the wizard of quick dividends, to dweil among the four -per - centers of London. He left this country without even running for Parliamnent and entered the British Conunons as member for Ashton-under-Lyne. He got a titie almost before he had learned the topography of West- minster. He caried coals to, Newcastle by making nioney in the sheep-nibbied financial pastures of London. After the outbreak of war, wbich upset a few of bis apple- carts in continental Europe, lie got hirnself sent to France as the officiai, eye-witness for Canadian troops. Witbin sixteen months of the war, whicli made bis own career in Canada seeni like the trail of a spent meteor, lie becaine the author of'tle first book dealing with Canadians at the front. This book may not be literature. Yet it lias consider- able litei-ary foi-m. It may not be admirable history; but it wiil go down as a contribution to a great and glowing phase of how Canadians have helped to make bistory for the Empire. It is said to be Sir Max\u003es own writing. It was written at first hand. Sir Max was- at the front. He always lias been. Imagination fails to, conceive of bis going even to the war as a back-bencher. TI the first-line trenches lie saw a new Canada la the malcing. In those few inentlis near the firing lime lie was a trained observer doing bis best to get impressions ini a totally new world and to work them. out in a fresh mediumn. Plenty of proiessional, journa]ists were han- kering to get to the front. These experts could be leit l26",
         "Sir Max Aitken to nibble theirpencils at home or \" somewheà:in rirance.\" A man whose life had been spent in making news for other naen to record would syndicate bis copy anywhere in the Empire. AU this was very paradoxical and somewhat spec- tacular, but not in the least out of character with the main part of Aitken's career. Son of a diligent parson in Newcastle, N.B., he knew what it was as a youth to, begrudge bixnself book learning. An insurance clerk in Halifax, he became private secretary to the manager of the Nova Scotia Iron and Steel Company. \"Stung with the spiendour of a sudden thought,\" he saw two parochial littie banks eating their heads off with com- petition and overhead, expenses, and he naively per- suaded the bankers to, ainalgamate. With the tang of haut finance on bis tongue, he breezed up to Montreal and began to trail bis swift spare figure in aznong the shadows of the Bank of Montreal and the Stock Exchange. At that time and i.mtil the end of bis career in Montreal Aitken was quoted by other financiers and by news- papermen as a sort of wizard. He was the David among Goliaths. There were men in Montreal whose solenn brows had held the financiai secrets of Canada ever since C.P.R. and the Bank of Montreal becaine the progenitors of great speculative movements. To men schooled in the methods of a more patient, plodding generation, this slim young innovator with the fair hait, the large head, and the blue eyes, this full-lipped, sniiling- faced, resilient youth who seemed to be able to read finance before he had learned its spelling-book, seemed at flrst like a cheery young upstart, wvho would presently settle down to know that bis place just now was flot in the seats of the mighty and bis time flot yet. Aitken smootbly udeceived them. He seemed to have arrived in the nick of time. Had he begun to carve out bis cateer in the days of the National Policy, bis might flot have divided itself into tbree distinct periods before he reached the age ôf forty. That bushwhacking era -in 237",
         "Sir Max Aitken finance had been pretty well trail-blazed by a nuinber of shrewd Scotch-brained men like Donald A. Smnith, George Stephen, R. B. Angus, William Macdonald, and James Ross. This young mnan began where they' began to leave off. As Mr. Edward Bok, editor of the Ladies' Home journal, believes in the poverty of other people, so Max Aitken belreved in the value of other men's experiences. He had flot time to creep before hie ran. He had just escaped Halifax where a business sign is the gilded reflex of a family tree. Montreal was just comrnencing to take stock in the nouveau riche. The old Scotch-caution junta of money barons was fmnding its preserves invaded by a umber of new- thoughters, of *whomn Max -Aitken soon becaine the young high priest. Had Aitken ever attended college he woutld have wanted an M.A. without bothering with second and third year lectures. In filiùce--or was it finance, this curious compounding of comînodities, of iron and steel, mines, lands, wvater-powers, electric powers, timber, and what not ?-he spent a *bectic decade creating ait sorts of new companies that seemed capable of paying dividends, wages, and cost of production within a very short while of their birth. How hie did it he could himself scarcely tell. Wbile some of the old-]ine generals of finance were leading their several armies up varions climbing routes to the Parnassian peaks of prosperity based upon universal optimism, Aitken was commissioning lines of airships that got there ahead of any land schedule. No doubt he was brilliant. Hie was modern. He thought in continents. Quite uncannilyt he had the knack of seeing into, and through, the things that other mnen walked about to investigate. Hie thouglit quickly and acted wbile he though-.. lie had no time for financial etiquette. From, the offices of the Royal Securities Corporation-his parent cbifld-he could see the dome of the Bank of Montreal, which had no sacrosanctity to hiLm There was no0 cranny in the C.P.R. building to wihich hie could not penetrate. Most of bis financial 238",
         "Sir Max Aitke n friencis on the Stock Exchange were good arithineticians, figuring concretel-j in the,-weights, rneasures, and values. Aitken was thé, higlier algebraist who deait mainly with symbols. There was no way of computing what he miglit be worth at any gi-ven turne. Fle neyer seemed to care. He was flot godizing mere wealth. Hie was playlng the grand game; quite -ý. well az it bas ever been played by many of the most brilliant exponents of \"'legitimate \" higlier finance. The. gaine fascinated him. Hie was flot a gainbler; but lie had the daring of any Prince of Monte Carlo. He had a fine constructive imagination. He was rather a poet of the stock market. He could write Wagnerian operas from the Stock Exchange ticker. And before he had one draina more than sketched in, with breathless haste lie traced out another. fis own associates, and even bis critics, very much admired hma for bis darlng qualities. They built factories, railways, electric uines, water-power works, mills, and minlng industries. fie co-ordinated them and found the square of their value. Always gifted with the faculty 'of clear thinking, lie had equal ability for expressing blimseif in logical language and klndling enthusiasm both iu hirnse]f and lu others. In short, Max Aitken was the embodiment of that younger Canada wbich duxing the first decade of Canada's century set the country going at a pace neyer before known, even iu the United States. Endowed with remarkable economic sense, lie seldom paused to con- sider where this headstrong expressionism would carry the Canadian people. To hlm there was no need for editors and preachers to moralise opi the dangers of over-expansion. The country was Inarchlng ahead. Its gait was part of a world-movement. No one pretends that Aitken rea]ly created anything new even in finance. It was ail an old story. Most of it had been tried ont lu the United States. Aitken was by instinct an American, flot in politics, nor lu sentiment -but ln this amazlng capacity for gettlng ahead. The .t.epping stones of bis dead self neyer helped hlm. Hie 239",
         "Sir -Max Aitken neyer gave' birnself time to die. Once when lie .pai3sed 'for a moment lu bis financial career, he started a weekly paper which guzzleg4 a fortune from hlm. and died before. it grew up. 1-e.inighit have knowu better. But he. was '- wifling to enjoy some of the.fruits of inexperience. This was a new medium. And he neyer learned it. lI the midst of bis brilliant career, just on the eve of a rallentando in the Opera of Expanision, Max Aitken. left the country. Havlng put a number, of naines on the fmnanciai map he was supposed to be over-worked and went to England. To come back-when? Nobody knew. The things he had started migit: get along-with- out him. Other men could operate thue -machines. -1Re could see other p\u003cssibilities. It was a curious, ahnost prescient, manoeuvre. Nobody quite understood what it meant. Aitken biniseif couild scarcely say what bis career would be. Re was. too young- to retire. H\u0026h',ad succeeded too weIl -to quit succeeding. Mere place, preferment or pedgree .would flot satisfy hlm. 0f politics he had no great knowledge. Most of our owu politics were too hopelessly intricate for a young financier to unravel. In England- Wha-.t? Well, a new environment. He was already knolvui to the money Ings. H1e could talk to, the lords of Threadneedle Street witli habituai ease. But there were other people--to hlm more- interesting. England was full of human interest.. Aitken had a.fine -hunger for mucli of it. H1e had met Kipling once by accident ou the Miramichi, N.B. 'To hlm Kipling was a huruan England. They became friends. Each found in-the other what lie was not himself. Aud each before lie was forty had sketched out a life work.- Indeed, Aitken found in England mauy things of which formerly lie had only dreained. It was a new world. Its politics were new to, him. H1e went into -politics. He made good. speeches. He bad a clear vision of England\u0026s problems. For a yonng pan lie had remaïkable aptitude for-dealing 'with theru. Ashton-under-Lyue was as good to hlm as.Newcastle-on-Tyne. Either was a symibol of 240-",
         "1 *6,4 IA",
         "Sir Max Aitken opportunity. By contributing money to, the Unionist cause, by making good speeches, by convincing thé electorate that he knew England quite as weil as the average native-born blasé politician, he got a seat in Parliament, and a knighthood. Sir Max Aitken had arrived at his second stage of evolution. 11e was stiil undér forty. Most of this programme had been absurdly easy. We hear of no struggles, disappointments, hopes deferred. The Zeppelin-like ascent of this young Canadian among the heavier-than-air craft about him rather disillu- sioned some of us in Canada. We had supposed that on an average for a Canadian to, reach the S-eats of the mighty ini Englaud was a good deal like the camel and the eye of a needie. No doubt King Edward and Queen Alexandra rather let the bars down to, the successful money-spending Axnerican. Court was not, so exclusive as it had been. Aristocracy was less rigid. Lloyd George's assaults on the Lords had put some dints in the ancestral armour. A cat might look at a ing. Democracy was grinning over the parapets into the gardens of the great. Perhaps after ail it was not such a fent for a wealthy, keen-brained Canadian like Aitken to get on in such a world. We suspect that he, too, would have found the road thorny enough but for bis wealth and the sort of organising brain that he has. Sir Max knew how to use bis money to advantage without squaudering it. H1e had a pleasant, en gaging personality. H1e feil into the ways of England with a deinocratie smile. H1e linked hinaself up with a political, party none too well equipped with organising brains. H1e mnade Bonar Law his political mentor-when he is hinaself a vastly cleverer man. H1e diffused about him, the exbilarating brusqueries- of Canadian optixnism. There was a subdued chuckle ini bis eye. H1e was in a measure irresistible, and at that time was inexperienced enough to be' a bit nervous about bis prestige, at times almost. to, a point of being quite charniingly ingenuous. H1e neyer presunied. 241Q",
         "Sir MxAitken \"Capital 1\" soliloquised manor -born John Bull. 'Aitken) doesn't corne at us with a broncho. By Jove f- er '\u003e-another screvw-up of the monocle-\" he's deucedly *modest. Clever as tey make 'em and fresh as a daisy. Splendid!1'\u003e They admitted that even in gold-glutted, bond- dyspeptic old London he had the wits to, make money. And he seemed to have a fiind of vita]ising ideas. For a money-wizard he had a great gif t of speech without spint- ter. He kept a big country house and a staff of servants, moior-cars and carrnages galore-and yet he could smoke a cigar after breakfast at bis own house with a young Canadian who had drifted to England on a pass in search of copy, even though he had gone on a cattle-ship and had trousers baggy at the knee. At the High Com- missioner's Offices on Downing Street he was recognised as a mani with a future, even though, he already had a past. To old Lord~ Strathcona, into whose Bank of Montreal préserves this young man had rollicked so serenely in bis twenties, Aitken must have seemed like a rather inspining conundrum. To the present incuxnbent, Sir George Perley, heis probably more. In fact we suspect that among ail the Canadians in Eugland, Sir Max isnow easily thechief. He is the symabol of young Canada. Ris portfolio of eye-witness from the War Office gave hlm, an odd prestige such as Sir Gilbert Parker, who had already wnitten a very able book on the war, xnight: have envied. He may have had trouble in getting the appointinent, but he knew how to, cut out the resistance. When he got over to France as lord of Canadian despatches, he was iuvested with some of the mysterlous power of the Fourth Estate when most of the estate envied bim. Perhaps he chuckled at bis own success; but at the saine tixue he made the most of bis opportunity. In so doing lie became a changed Sir Max. With a definite business as part of the war machine, he had no need to deplore bis comparative isolation fromn the frnancial currents of the Empire. lie stiil had bis offices, 242",
         "Sir Max Aitken bis investments, bis knowledge of the game, his seat in Parliament, bis title-and bis hopes. What lie niay become, does any one know? Has lie a determinable future; or is lie a bumning-out fuse? He is yet too young to, say. At the age of thirty-seven, lie has a distinctly traceable past ini three epoclbs. What a retrospective outlooki 24?3",
         "COLONEL SIR HENRY PELLATT AN appropriate fiction is often maore illuminating than the truth. Sonie years ago a newspapermian in al sincerity, as though giving an aidavit, alleged that during the South African War Colonel Henry Pellatt found bimselfe minus ail b;-, ciothes and conapelled, to walk some miles in purisnawiralibus across tke veldt to a farmhouse. No moie apocryphal romance was ever invented, except by Balzac. It is the hypothecation of the absoiutely impossible. The fact that Pellatt was neyer in South Africa is of covrse a mere episodic incident. That he 'y-as credited with having been there must have arisen froni the fact that part of bis regiment was in the Boer War, and that where the Queen's OwnÙ is ther. of necessity will Colonel Pellatt be also. No regimnent was ever continuously the personal appanage of any one mnan Ps the Q.O.R. for years has been of Sir Henry Pellatt. [t was in the Queen's Own that he became a soldier, beginning in i88o as a private; in 1906 commander of the regunent. Hie was major of the Canadian Contingent at the Diamond Jubilee; commander cf the saine at the coronation of King Edward wher. he took over the Queen's Own Bugle Band at bis own personal, expense. In 1910, when army manoeuvtes were held at Aldershot, the Queen's Own, 620 strong, were present under cormnand, of Sir Henry. They were wir.ed and dined in casties and other places, starved on the route marches, praised by the people, and poohpoohed by the crities. There neyer was a parade of the Queen's Own in recent years when the plethoric and pompous figure of the O.C. was flot present either on bis white horse or- marcbing grandly at the head, stoically perspiring and palpitating with the uniform and the heat, and wisbing that the 245",
         "Colonel Sir IHenry Pellt march might last tw-,ice as long that twice as many people might behold it. If Sir Henry could by zny miracle be permitted to ride at the head of ail the battalions evolved frorn the Queen's Own with ail the Queen's Own officers drafted into other battalions since the war began, somne- where between 6ooo and 7000 men would corne trailing behind him. In such a khaki-clad procession the original regiment in their unmartial green-black uniformns would be a blotch of ink on a buff-coloured blotter. At present the old mother regiment is struggling to keep its corporeal identity, when at tures the 0.C. seemas to be the xnost substantial, part of it. But it lives, like other Canadian regiments, a part of the deathless army. And what the Queen's Own has beè*ome in the war story of modemn Canada is a debt owing in great part to the Colonel commanding, who always seems as though he owned the reginient body and bones. To dominate a regirnent in peace times is possible only by spending rnoney pn it to niake il a show. Pellatt long ago leazned what a show a peace regiment can become, aithougli he had the most lnspectacular body of men in Canada. And he always seemed to have whatever money he needed for the purpose of providing a; show. Hie is now the greatest unprofessîonal show-mani in Canada *; a living exaxnple of the inotto, \"It pays to advertise.\" Sir I{enry's interpretation of the legend is-\" 'What I advertise is worth other people's while to look at.\" Commerciaily Pellatt has always been a broker. Dealing prixnarily with the symbolic value of money, it is not remarkable, however interesting it may be, that he lias developed a colossal fancy for the tangibilities that represent the reality of wealth. Hie is a typical corpora- tion mani; bon to be a director, to sit on boards, preside at meetings where ni;lions are represented, and to have a finger in publicutility pies. His directorates have included electric light companies, tractions, coal, iron and steel, navigation, mining, telegraphs, and insurance. He has neyer been a banker. -Whether he is worth littie or much, 246",
         "Colonel Sir Henry Pellatt he is always necessary. Men who concern thé-mselves with iron and railways, miils and mines, flnd Pellatt the somehow indispensable other party to whom one sort of connnodity is about as interesting as another. In cor- poratior. circles he is the personal equation. No man ever offended Sir Henry by caliing him a millionaire. When the Montreal Star and the Standard got out a Burke\u003es Peerag.- of Canadian financiers a few years ago, Pellatt was flot rated as a xniltionaire and not classifled as one of the twenty-three men at the basis of Canadian finance. That was a superficial estimate and a quite supercilious omission. Whatever his comi.ion com- mercial rating may be in the language of the dollar, Sir Henry Pellatt is always temperamentally a inillionaire. The number of letters in bis sumâàme is exactly equal to, the number of digits in i,ooo,ooo. Something in that. Pellatt is a believer in financial magie. le treats the world of finance as a great garden of r -'are, where some things grow huge at the expense of OtLhers. The over- grown finance plants are Pehatt's--or ouglit to be. lie has no patience with the littie border things that lose themnselves in the grass. He prefers the banyan tree, or the green bay tree, or any sort (if arboraceous thing that demonstrates magie expressible in money. It is a fact that we scarcely heard of Colonel Pellatt tiil Canada began to be prosperous with great r-ailways, fabulous mines, eldoradoes of arable land, the rise of marvellous power plants on the brink of Niagara with transmission lines stretching over half a province, and the bumptious, parabolic curves of real estate that would persist in going up and up regardless of what the Iand was worth in rent. Ail through that prodigal boom time in Canadian affairs, Sir Henry bloomed like a magnolia tree in the national garden. lie was visible everywhere; into everything; his personal equation necessary to everybody engaged in the genial game of grand opera prosperity. In 1907, when the money markets of America were dislocated by a near-panic in the vicinity of Wall Street, 247.",
         "Colonel Sir Henry Pellatt an adventurous newspaper published alarmist state- ments about the condition of Pellatt securities. That was i a. Sunday edition. That day there was a line of automobiles and carniages in front of the Pellatt residence on Sherbourne Street, Toronto, and a conclave of financiers iu the bouse. Sunday though it was, and Sir Henry, like niost of bis financial confreres, a good church- man,\u003e there was a most searching scrutiny into, the afiairs of the bouse of Pellatt. So many banks were involved that the caucus very much resembled a clear- ing-bouse convention. When the examination was over every banker in the room drew a long breath. There was no system, of bank balances that seexned able to disturb the Pellatt equl- librium. Hie was so intricately interwoven with tbe affairs of ail the banks that to have declared hlm insolvent would bave been equivalent to bankruptlng a bank-wuich was frima facie absurd. Tbe jovian edifice of securities built up by the personal equation of Sir Henry was found to have its vertical line froni the peak fail within the area of the base. Therefore, it must be sound. The newspapers wbo bad rusbed into headiues over the mlsfortune of Peilatt mumbled as they ate their words next morning. Presently the stonu was over. Prosperity sniiled again. And the unfinancial average person somehow had an idea that Sir Henry had done it ail. Almnost ten years ago Sir Henry becaine the subject of many benevolent regards on account of the baronial edifices lie began to, rear on the brow of the bull over- looking Toronto. The flxst structure to emerge on the stummit of that bill not fat from. a lovely denui-iorest of wildwood trees was a mammoth castle with a Norman tower, red-tiled roofs and a great courtyard round about. when ail it seemed to, lack was a drawbridge and a moat to make it a fat illustration for one of Walter Scott's novels. Sir Henry did not move into that castle. The baronial, structure tbat gleamed on a briglit day for miles over 248",
         "Colonel Sir Henry Pellatt the city was inhabited oudy by horses and chickens, gardeners and stablemen. Lt was only the stable. Then the jokesiniths began a merry round of quips at the expense of that unconventional stable big enough to house a hundred -horses-when, according to rumour, Sir Henry had only a few. Sir Henry hugely enjoyed the joke. He had built that stable for people to talc about it. Hie had put it on the brow of a hill for people to see. Those who said it was a shameful prodigality of good rnoney were shallow critics who neyer appreciated the Pellatt maxim, \"L t pays (the public) (for me) to advertise.\" Many were the speculations as to the kind of house necessary to offset so mamnioth a stable. Yeaàr by year, whenever the state of Pellatt finances per.mitted, the castie Casa Loma built itself up. Lt now stands out a great gre'ystone baronial pile of' overwhelining grandeur as conspicuous as one of the Pyraniids. Lt is big enough for a New York hotel. It has chimneys enough for a srnall town, windows enough for a Luge modern factory, rooms enough to house the Queen's Own, grounds big and beautiful enough to, give a lawn party to, the entire garrison of Toronto. When the I)uke and Duchess of Aberdeen were in Canada in the autumn of i915 there was a grand Red Cross reception or something of the sort at Casa Loma. Such a social outburst had neyer been known in Canada, even at Rideau Hall. V/heu the programme went on in the music-room-as large as a medium.-sized theatre -amost a thousand people listened as they talked. A few weeks later Sir Henry gave bimself the pleasure of entertaining the entire National Chorus of which he is President. Two hundred singers under the baton of Dr. Albert Ham, the National Chorus conductor, sang to Sir Henry anid bis friends. On these and ail such occasions Sir Henry went about among bis impromptu guests like a great god Pan ainong bis nymphs and satyrs. lis practical ideas of society, soldiery, and art are of the kzind that can be staged only ivith the 249",
         "Colonel Sir Henry Pellatt dixnensioÈ9 of a nigiidWagner grand opera. CasaI Loma must have beeended for a Canadian imitation of Vaihalla. At the foot of the bill domint, 'ed by the Pellatt castie are noisy factories, dirty railway yards, end grimy coal chese intyu ul tehuefrhrb on heve i o th t you. on'ise the inarsti fthings?\"k Sor thenryl s tasle yo ao' frend.seiatitcth '\u003cý Her wsi\u003e waskdb th filygnilrel, i. had de shat,- peophe ouldnye enal ep to see my haoue t advantage woutd clmbn te abl. Io didn't build it wrerely as -a dwelling. I intended it for ar spectacle.\" Up near Lake Simcoe also Sir Henry has a great fan which is a perpetual economic spectacle to the plain horses. In the prospermng years he engaged so znany P men on this greatmodel farm that other farners grumbled at the scarcity of help. It seems aixnost a pity that the farm could flot be moved from its obscurity of Lake Simcoe to the plateau forefronted by the Pellatt castle in Toronto.t Any good standard recipe for building a new nationf might safdy include one Pellatt. More would be danger- ous. Hait a dozen Pellatts would be a slogan for red- rag socialism. Sir Henry's personai, function in Canadian economies must be, charged up to national advertising. There are tinies when such advertising suggests patent rnedicine literature indicating the social and economic lls of the country from which no Pellatt specific; for prosperity can ever deMiver it. A well-known pond- stirring publication has declared that Sir Henry is a profieer. It must be suspected, however, that no such character as ?e]Iatt: could evolve in any country unless the general tendency in boom tinies had been for thousands of men to become as fat as possible minia- - ture Pellatts and tbousands of others to copy the miniatures. The man who works by any underground 250",
         "Colonel Sir Hcrnry Pellat method to become a Waflingford is no man to criticise Pellatt for advertising either bis real or bis hypothetical' wealth as a spectacle. Sir Henry Pellatt has been a promoter of benevolences, a swaggering dash of colour ini our national life, and the patron saint of a fine historic and frnperialisig regiment. To such a man we may address sotto voce the memnorable salutation of a poet to England-\" With all thy faults I love thee still.\" 251",
         "LORD STRATHOONA AT least two biographies of Lord Strathcona have been written. His life is yet to write. The only man qualified for such a task would have been some Scotch clerk, who znight have acted Boswell to this pemmican-eating overlord from the lime he was Hudson's Bay cadet in Labrador unitil he settled in Winnipeg after the sale of Rupert's Land by the Hudson's Bay Coxnpany to the Government of Canada. The life that Donald A. Smith lived after that was a tbing for diligent biographers. Politics, railroading, and culture got hold of Donald A. Smnith affter he had passed is first epoch of the man primeval. Together they made of this borean land-son of a Viking a bewildering number of LL.D.'s, as niany millionaires, a chancellor of great universities, a member of ?arliament, a high conunissioner, a knight, a baron, an entertainer of royalty, and a philanthropist. Smith he origina]ly was; a universal plebeian fact, tyrant of the furposts, a dog-dxiving, man-lording, benevolent despot that heaped up fortunes for the fur company in London and kept the red men from going to the white man's devil as best he xnight. His parents should have christened hlm. Olaf or Thor. This Smith from Morayshre in- the north of Scotland was afraid of no mnan; neither of solitude, nor cold, nor hunger, nor the devil. He had eyebrows that gathered the hoar and hands that cracked, the long raw-hide whip over the .eaxs of the head dog ini a blizzard. Hie slept in deerskcin bags and four-point blankets and talked Cree with a Scotch burr. Hie knew the long reaches of the crooked trait froui post, to post, the bite of fifty below zero, and the mystic fleer of the midnight sun. Silver and gold had he none, neither banknotes nor any land of currency sometimes but beaverskins and tokens 253",
         "Lord Strathcona But he knew how to heap up profits on*the goocis that came drifting along the coast of Labrador, across H-udson's Bay into the factor's furpost; how to know by the pinch of the peit and the glini of the fur what' was the value of the packs of skins that came swagger- ing down in great canoes from the highlands of the interior. From clerk to chief factor and resident governor, rul1ing a savage domain two-thirds the size of Europe, this \" Oogamou \" of the dogý-whip and the goose-quili pen worked out the gospel of success and self-help as no man ever did in that part of North America. He had but one fealty-the \"Company. of Gentlemen Adven- turers trading into Rupert's Land,\" with outposts from the easterxuost tip of Labrador to the nor'-westemn peak of the Mackenzie vailey. Canoes on the rivers, dogý-sleds creaking on the trails, and grey-win'ged ships gliding into the f8ft harbours were to hlm what transcontinental railways, great elevators, and bustling terminais are to modem magnates. The pile of beaver- skins or the heap of tokens were to Donald A. -Smith of the bushy eyebrows and the canny Scotch thrift as authentic as the gold reserves in the vaults of the Bank of Montre-.l. Books he had none except faded mnaga- zines and newspapers that struggled in a year after date by dog-sled to the furpost. Pictures hie neyer saw except the marvels of northern landscapes by the light of magic suris or the flickering aurora and the ci-nde symbolings of red men on their skin tepees. For music he had the howling of hungry huskie dogs and the drone of the furpost accordion. But the whole audacions draina of a rude world work- ing itself out to civilisation paraded itself before this man, who in tbirty-one years neyer knew the serene finality of a swaloewtail or an opera hat. More than xnost men of bis time in any country he was to, demon- strate the humbug of mere enviroriment. This bush-lubbering epic in aIl its barbaric splendour must be kept in mind vividly in any attempt to get an 254",
         "Lord Strathcona impression of Donald A. Smith who became Lord Strath- cona. Ail the law there was of it-he was. Ail lie was the great company endorsed. Donald A. Smith witliout the great fur company would stili have been the over- powering chief of the Clan Smith; for lie had in hlm the ipetuous virllity that waits for nothing and the slow, dour -tenacity of the Scot from the north coast country who can wait if need be a thousand years. Maybe the north made hlm so. [t would have either kiiled hlm or made hlm. It was a struggle between two, strengths: the man and the country-when the man conquered, and in so doing was conscious of no great virtue as a stoic. When lie left the resident-governor's log castie to, become a citizen of a common country ail hedged about with pariaments and laws, Rupert's Land began to cease existlng. The great feudalism came to its last days with the selling of the vast fur-domahi. to the newly cîreated Dominion of Canada. The feudal chieftain, born in the saine year as Queen Victoria, found himself at the age of forty-nlne at the end of an epoch in hls life. Had lie been a plain Viking lie miglit have clied on some terrific journey and been cremated on a ing's pyre. He had wrought out one man's lfe which, looked at from snug farnily firesides, seemed as fabulously roe'iantic as the story of Ulysses. But lie was yet a young man. Wheu Donald A. Smith quit lis chieftainship under the Hudson's Bay Company the Franco-Prussian War was just beginning; Queen Victoria was i lier thirty- second yearof reign; the United States was just beginming to recover from the Civil War; coal-oil civilisation was at its heiglit in America; Canada had less than a thousand miles 'of ralway and scarcely a thousand white men west of Lake Supenior. Out from the wild places for good now, the mid-aged chieftain found hlmself confronted with a curions hai.f- awake civilisation that seeined to be just nicely getting over the snuff-box, ininuet period of development, when hoop-skirts, and baggy trousers were. as fashionable as 255",
         "Lord Strathcona 8oo-page novels. So far as lie miglit have cared to size it up, it was the-beginning of the iron-and steel age. There was no Canada except in the British North-America Ac.;. so far as is knoWn, flot a niilionaire ini the country; no known gold-mine of any consequence; copper deposits and nickel areas unexplored; electricity stiil in the experi- mental stage; not a telephone anywhere; no conception of wireless; flot a clew to- .the X-ray; no case- of appendicitis on record; no typewriting machines muse; automobiles flot yet invented; nobody with the influ- eiiza-and no trace of thehigher critîc: the world was still reading new poems by Tennyson; Gladstone was fanious as an orator; George BernardýShaw was a downy youth; Goldwin Smith. had flot yet - corne to the Grange to Oxiordise Toronto; and penny postage was in the saine arc of discovery as the ?acific Cable. In order to, vindicate the popular conception of bis character, Donald A!, Smith i :1870 must have been somewhat bewildered by such an inchoate,,evolutionary, andrestless world. So many great things were just about to begin at the tine when he ceased te be feudal lord i Rupert's Land to become a more or less. democratic citizen of Canada. To a man with such virility, such an untarned, somewhat barbaric mid, and such a genlus for organisation and despotic government, it must have been a probleni to decide just what place lie would fli ini sucli a world. Like a former Alexander, having fixished the song I arn ronaxch of afi I survey, My iight there is none to dispute,\" he miglit have dedided that no other worlds remained to conquer, at least by bis -methods. What lie had gone most 'without in the north-land he niight have determined te have. As reckless as the wildcat miner suddenly becoine a millionaire, hke could -easily at bis age have deterznined te satisfy some craving -for culture, bookrs, music, science, philosophy, art, languages. Following the later example of some of our successful Canadians lie 256",
         "17 f",
         "Lo rd Strathcona might have taken his fortune to Rotten Row or Surrey and in a crush hat and opera cloak got himself pointed out at the opera as the once pemniican-eating Poohbah who, had governed and operated an empire of furposts and was now-ripe for the lorgnettes of London. But Donald A. Smith was. both too much of an un- spent virility and a Scotchman to let himself become the dwind]ing victixu of inanity. He had been long enough on the borderland of the political, more or less civilised part of this country to perceive that certain large pro- grammes were sure to happen in the near future. Con- federation was one of them. He understood that, perhaps better than some of its active political promoters. Hie realised the value, the cost, and the future of a great transcontinental railway even more than did the political statesmen who, were trying to, fight it through as a sequel to Confederation. And for ail we know he may even have had dreanis about the future of Canada ini the Empire. At ai events here was an a boriginal master of trade, transportation,:.-ind despotism who\u003e having conquered Rupert's Land, was ready to help organise modem Canada. Politics was one way to do it. Donald A. Smith went into politics. Old-timers on the prairie and f ar up to the headwaters of the Saskatchewan remember -some of the election scrimmages undertaken by tbis grixu- bearded Thor from Rupert's Land who sat first i the Legisiature of Manitoba, again in the old North-West Coundil, and afterwards for both Winnipeg and Montreal in the Gommons where he soon demonstratedthat he had no pet use for either Conservatives or Liberals except in so far as they were willing to be as obedient as good huskie dogs under the whip. So he was not merely a politician. Politics to hixu was an instrument. There was a bigger work than winning elections. That was the Canadian Pacific Railway. How the parent of Canadian transcontinentals came to be bult is the story of no one man-more than it may be of Donald A. Smith. Sir Charles Tupper once said that 257 R",
         "Lord Strathcona there neyer would have been a C.P.R. without the power anÂd daring of this mnan, who seemed to defy al known rnethods of raising money, neyer knew wlun h_ý was tired, baffled, or beaten, and was such a man-driving, parliament-harrying Norseman that he neyer would takze no for an answer. That was one way of exalting Donald A. Smiith who hed the faculty of suggesting the supernatural But the C.P.R, was merely the tbing that the Norseman chose for the expenditure of bis barbaric and creative energy. The rnoney could be got somehow, even theugh the road threatened to bankrupt every man that touched it and te wreck the fortunes of any band of politicians who put it on their programme. It was the most prodigal gamble in North Ainerica. It was bigger in dime.nsions than even Rupert's Land. It was a dreara of daring, con- structive arrogance that made it possible tc durap water from the Paciflc iute, ,the Atlantic by hauliug it thou- sands of feet up the Rocies, via the Kicing Herse Pass and 4000 miles from sea te sea. And its comÉpletikn under the management of the resourceful Van Horne was a triumph for at least a few Homeric individuals, some of whom are already embahned in the Pacific Scandai. Chief of ail the C.P.R. creatoré was Donald A. Snmith, who finally rode the great speculation into an enormeus fortune and a place of eminence in the Bank of Montreal. When the last spike of the great railway was driven at Craigellachie, B.C., by Donald A. Smith iu Nevember 1885, the ex-overlord of Rupert's Land was just sixty-five years of age. He had reached the end of the second movement in the Lage trilogy of bis career. The year following he was made a K.C.M.G. by Queen Victoria. From that time on tities and degrees, honours and fortunes, heaped theinselves up about the craggy per- sonality of this uncanuy, couquering Scot. The world was as mucli bis -zow as he caxed- to make it. He was i the third and Iast act of bis curions, almost universal drama when political prestige, public prefermeut, and academic degrees came to hlm as iron fi]ings te a magnet. 258",
         "Lord Stratheona For the rest of bis 111e, down to the days of bis baron- age, bis countless, philanthropies, bis collections of great paintings, bis benevolences in music, his casties of wealth, and bis regiment of horse in the Boer War, Lord Strath- cona and Mount Royal became the most super-eminent conventionality in the British Empire. He turned to, a splendid customary gentleman and a peer in the flouse of Lords. He becan-e a public speaker, when bis audiences scarcely cared what lie said so long as they could gaze long enougli at the weird uncouquerable figure of the muan. fie visited Canada over and over again, when each time lie came it seemed the more remarkable that a man of bis great age could be prank- ing about so on the Atlantic. Presently it seemed as thougli this octogenarlan had the kind of vitality that neyer gives out. Hligli Comniissioner, lie was present ai the funeral of Queeu Victoria in i1901. King Edward camne and went -the monarch who was boru while Donald A. Smith was a Scotch clerk in Labrador. Lord Strathcoua stayed. Now and then lie put up at bis great baronial home ln Moutreal; solitary ini the rnidst of magnificence that sometimes seemned more lonesome than any furpost. fie returued to iàs queer, flustery office of Higli Coinimissioner in London; a shrunkeni, deafening, sight-dimming old Norsemnan who neyer kuew when lie was either old or weary. The white rime of the sub-Arctic camne out to stay on bis shaggy eyebrows. Withering giaut of old age, lie was stiil somehow as mystic, and dour, and conipelling-with ail bis quavering geniality and bis squeak of a voice- as lie had been lu the thundering, creaking days when lie rode bebind the huskie dogs lu the wbistling snow and rolled to sleep lu bis deersIu bag after a dinner of trailside pemmnican. 259",
         "TWO PERES DE MUSIQUE Music is old enough in Canada to have had a fine of ancestors, chief aznong whom are two men, F. H. Torrington and Guillaume Couture. When Torrington began to -champion the cause of the treble clef ini a crude land back in the 'fifties and the 'sixties, we had no foreign naines from most of the countrieý of Europe on our roll of musicians. That in 1916 there are in this country many professional musicians representing by nationalities and schools of music the niost that music has done for the world in all forms is due by lineage, at Ieast, to the patkfinding propensities of Torrington and Couture; one representlng the British Uine culminat- iug in sucli men as Bantock, Elgar, Hubert Parry, and Mackenzie; the other the Frenchi development traceable in Debussy, Massenet, St. Saens, and Bizet. Torrington came to Montreal in 1856, then a young Englishman of nineteen. He showed bis adaptability by not expecting a large pipe-organship as soon as lie arrived, and began by tuning pianos; afterwards tramnp- ing over Montreai teacbing music at fifty cents a lesson. Organs were small and wheezy in Moutreal in those days; there were no such cathedral instruments as that at Notre Dame, St. James', and the Churcli of the Gesu. Music was ail very primitive. There was a British regimeut stationed at Montreal. Torrington took lessons from. H.M. bandinaster on band instruments and tauglit thc bandsman theory in exchange. When the couductor was away Torriugton led the band. Hé played violin in the orchestra, which it seens -was a very good one, for one evening when lie was to play a solo at frrst desk lie was asked by the couductor if he would kindly give place to a new and celebrated virtuoso, 261 t",
         "Two Peres deMusique who had corne to town from, Beliun. jehixi-Pruxue was the new arrivai, a mani who lef t a big mark on Montreal mnusic and upon Torrixigton, who, as organist of a large Methodist church, violinist, piano teacher, and band conductor, soon demonstrated bis Anglo-Saxon per- tixiacity by becoming the most useful musiciai i Montreal. Six or seven years aftei bis arrivai the assassination of D'Arcy McGee convulsed Montreal. It was Torrington who played the funeral service li St. Patrick's. fI-e was already a trail-fixider, and before he had fixiished bis twelve years li Moxitreal lie made the acquaixitance of axiother musical pioneer, Patrick Sarsfield Gilmore, a theatrical promoter of music festivals who, when lie was a salesman for baxid instruments, met Torrington li Montreal, and after the Civil War was over, invited the British organist to taike down a music corps to assist i the great Peace jubilee i Boston. This was Tor- ringtoxi's introduction to0 the festival idea i Amierica i which lie was to become a Canadiaxi Iiaugurator. A year or so, later, havixig read in a newspaper about a great new organ li the Boston Music Hall, lie wrote askixig for permission to, give a recital on this king of instru- ments. The resuit of that Boston performance was a post i the famous Ing's Chapel i Boston, to which Torrington went li 1868,*remainiing five years as organist, violinist, choral conductor, and general promoter of good works. lI 1873 he went up f0, Hailton to give an organ recital. xI those days Torrington was much of an orgaxiist. He had a passion for the big instrument, the bigger the better. Anid li those days the pipe organ was the only orchestra to be found i most towns and cities. While i Hamilton lie was asked by a visitlig Toronto music dealer if lie would go to Toronto axid take the large organ and choir i what was then the biggest Methodist churci li the world, the Metropolitaxi, bult as a resuit of the evangelising visit of Morley Puxishon, D.D. 262",
         "Two Peres de Musique Torrington left Boston. He went to Toronto, as far as possible with the pioneering promotion of good mnusic,, to start another Boston on Lake Ontario. That was in :187.3. He found bimseif in a much more single-minded and British community than Montreal. His organ and choir were not long becoming locally fainous. Torrington was neyer cut out for one console. He had organising enthusiasm. Bireaking away from traditions in his own church by giving big music for ail church -seasons as they have it ini unevangelical churches, he began to promote choral concerts. His first chorus\u003e performance was in the old music hall above the old Public Library, in aid of a lacrosse club. It was the beginning of a remarkable series of undenomiànational events in music; the nebulous organisation of chorus and orchestra that afterwards becaine the Philharmonie Society. The yeax 1886 was the musical annus mirabilis of Toronto. In that year the College of Music was started by Torrington on Pembroke Street, where it stili is; later in the saine year the Conservatory of Music under Edward Fisher; and in the early surnier of the saine year all the choruses and aIl the orchestral players that Torrington had ever mnstered in Toronto, with a good many more besides, congregated from. Toronto, Hamilton, and Buffalo nearly 8oo strong to give the first music festival ever held in that part of the world. There had been Cther near-festival performances even before Tor- rington's time; none on the scale of this Inemorable event that packed the old Mutual Street rink, the only place available for such a series of concerts, and gav.e te the citizens Qf Toronto three bistory-znaking per- formances of Handel's Israel in Egypt, Judas Maccaboeus, and Gouncd's Mors et Vita. The newspapers spent coitunns of description, praise, and criticism over this festival, which was the real begin- ning of a musical Toronto iu a big way and the first sure proof that F. H. Torrington was both willing and able to do ten times more than he was ever paid to do for the sake of proinoting good standard mnusic. 263",
         "Two Peres de Musique Oratorio had been dabbled in before his tirne. Tor- rington mamde oratorio a hobby. The Festival Chorus became the Philharmonie chorus and orchestn which for a good many% years made a sort of tabernacle of the Horticultural Pavilion in the Allan Gardens. Here Torrington was musical dictator, often in leagua- with bis old friend Gilrnore whose famous baud co-operated once a year 'with the Philharnionic Society. Oratorio and orchestral works were niow the regular pabulum, of Toronto. And it was only eight yeaxs after the great !estival of 1886 that an enterprising millionaire enthu- siast, -Hart A. Massey, built Massey Music Hall, which was opened under the direction of Torrington with a three days' festival iu June 1894. The opening of Massey Hall came at the time when Torrington's great work as a musical organiser was at its height. lu twenty-one years he had accomplished more ln a big way ,týxan had ever been done in ail the previotis years of Toronto's musical blstory. He popu- larised organ music, choir music, choital works, and orchestral works, brought many gr.eat artists from the. United States and England, pioueered the College of Music, established a musical cult in the University of Toronto, conducted a society in Hamilton, fou2nded an orchestral school for young players, carrying the torch of hopeful illurnlnating art into many a corner which without hlm would have gone groping without good music. He was neyer weary of good works; neyer daunted by critlcism; neyer too proud to make bis art simple, edifying, and inspIriig to any earnest soul desiring to, get an insight into musical art. Torrington has always been a real evangel. I-e was bon and bred with ail the qualities, that make evangelism worth while, and at the sanie time by their very aggres- sive persistence arouse opposition. He seemed to thrive on troubles. He neyer chose the ezsiest way. No chorus was ever too crude and unlettered for hlm, to rehea.rse with bis violin at the desk to zip out the exact pitc4 and to play the crotchety part that somebody neyer 264",
         "Two Peres de Musique could learu by looking at the notes. When lie glared at any section of the chorus and pounded the desk with bis baton, wlien lie staxnped out the tempo with bis foot, when lie rapped everybody to a hait and began to, deliver the musical decalogue-nobody in any of bis choruses found it easy to be disregardful. There was a great work to be done. Ail men and women with wbat- ever talent of miusic God had given them iniglit help to do it. There neyer was a time when Torrington failed li this clear, energising message. He was neyer concerned with the money lie nxiglt make. Consequently lie seldoru lad mucli. XVhat lie rmade withhÂard work slipped away without stint. Yet lie was always organis- ing, building up, extcnding bis parish, increasing the public interest li good and sometimes great mnusic. And wlien lie retired a few years ago from the desk and baton of bis choral society, then li its third or fourth phase of permutation, lie got froru the citizens of Toronto a formal and illuminated expression of what Toronto seemed to think it owed to a man who had madle it possible for other men to beid bigger things after hiru. Professor Guillanne *Couture lias neyer been out of the French atruosphere to wbich lie was born li tlie city of Montreal, wliere lie is now the oldest musician .except one, bis confrère Octave Pelletier, the organist, as Couture is the tnaftrc de chappdLe, of St. James' Cathedral. Singing and the organ have always been bis chsen spliere, along with composition. When the .Archbisliop of Montreal banned the opera Louise, it was at no suggestion of bis mnaftre de chappelle. 0f all musicians li that metropolis Couture seerus to have been one of the most liopeful over the future of li- digenousý grand opera. Sitting in bis big square studio at the Fraser Institute li 1912 the Professor benignlyü and somnewhat querulously blessed the operatiques. Hie was biruseif an habitué. In Paris, where lie spent years of bis formative career, he liad been congenially stung 26,5",
         "Two- Peres de Musique by the opera. Naturafly--since his examiners were Massenet,*Bizet, and St. Saens. Paris to Couture was an atmosphere. Montreal was always a mere suggestion. It is a matter of history that nearly ail the French-, Canadian musical elect went to 'aris and to Brussels to graduate. That part of Canafda has been remarkably fecund of musical follk. There has been always a pro- nounced lyric strain in the French Canadians; probably racial, and certainly flot made obsolete by centuries of exile from Gala. Organ, violin, piano, 'cello, voice- Montreal has evolved scores of able artists: but neyer a peixnanent great musical organisation. Music in that city is peculiarly ecclesiastic ini association and individual ini development. There are more native artists than in Toronto: fewer organisations. Most of the wealth is Anglo-Saxon. Most of the churches are French. Choral societies have been largely promoted by the French who were always in the musical majority. The inspiration of Gounod, St. Saens, Bizet, Massenet, Widor, has always directly inspired the Gailic element in Montreal, fed more upon mass than upon opera, which when it camne as a native product was backed first by a Scotch-Canadian millionaire, afterward by a New York flebrew-,, and in both cases talented as to, chorus and somewhat as to orchestra by native French Canadians. Paris was aiways the goal. Those who, like Couture, went abroad fetched back Paris with thein. So in the mattei of atmnosphere, quite apart froin the inteilectual and organising side of music, Montreal has always been tempperamentally the leader among Canadian cities. There are comparatively few \" foreign \" music folk in Montreal, because the Frenchi Canadian,-- have always had a habit of coming back to the big Parisising city on the St. Lawrence. Teutonic influences have always been timid in Montreal The Latin temperament held the stage. 0f this Gallic school of music Professor Couture has for a long while been an apostie. R1e was an organist of a small church at the age of sixteen. At nineteen he 266",
         "Two Peres de Musique played organ in the old St. James' Cathedral, when the org=. was not the fine French-Canadian instrument it is now-and it is a inatter of great and glowing pride to the Frencli-Canadian musicians that the organs wbich have become most fanious in America, able to compete with any in the world, are made in the small town of St. Hyacinthe on the Yaznaska. While a very young man Couture went to Paris. He was most of ail interested in voice, second in the organ- as weil in whatever made musical Paris gay and solemn and oesthetic. Ris studies threw him, into personal contact with many great French composers, including Massenet, Bizet, the composer of Carmen, St. Saens, the Verdi of France, and old Cesar Franck fromù Belginni,, known to the talent as \"« 'e bon père Franck,\" for whom Couture was organist tbree years at the Church of Ste. Clothilde. Perhaps no other musician bornin Canada has such a fund of inspiring and colourful recoilections built about these notable :figures ini a world centre of music. And as lie sat and talked of thern one day to the writer iu bis studio, the Professor rather pensively recalled those days. Regarding German music he had littie to, say. There seems to be no pro-Wagner strain lu Couture. The greatest music to hlm was and stài is lu Paris- thougl he bas devoted mucli of bis lite to, giving standard oratorios, as weIl as the ma-,ses and requiems, operas and organ music, lie knows so extensively and intimately. In Montreal theire could neyer be a Wagner cult of any extent. Frencli-Canadian influence in the band of sucli men as Couture, much guided by the needs of the Church, temperainentally inclined to French and Church music, lias always kept the dominant note of Montreal as near the Latin pitch as possible. They say that Couture in bis years of bard labour with choral and orchestral organisation becanie mucli of a czar ln mnusic. But lie gave no sign to the writer of any, au-t.ocratic temper. lie seemed rather to be a mild, benign sort of man wlio would do anytblng to :267",
         "Two Peres de Musique promote the gentie side of music, and rather than have discord would bimself retire to the background. .No longer conductor of oratorio and choral societies, lie is stili maigre de chappelle at St. James', and free to com- pose when bis, teachîng duties permit. His compositions are extensive and scholarly. His Requiem, composed and by hlm performed at the funeral of the late Hon. Raymoidd Prefontaine, once Minister of Marine at Ottawa, is regarded as a solid contribution to the litera- ture of Church,music. It is to be hoped that before lie quaits creative work altogether he will do sometbing to co-ordinate the music that is native to Frenchi Canada, beginning with the old Frenchi chansons and ending with sucli things as lie and a few others have been able to produce. Montreal, as a centre of music production, lias a briglit future. Professor Guillaume Couture is one of the strong steady liglits by which tliat future may bé :surveyed. 268",
         "TWO PAINTERS 0F ONTARIO LDANE MACFALL a few years ago wrote a glowing eulogiuni in the Academy on two Canadian paint.ers whiose joint exhibition he had seen i the Goupil Galleries, London. Homer Watson and J. Archibald Browne are the which. and tother of Anglo-Canadian- art. Ail that Watson is, Browne is not. Both depict Canadian land- scapes, and as. a ruie nothing else; both go afield in Quebec and Nova Scotia now and then fçx- subjects; but for the znost part they translate Ontario. landscapes. .And if a caxivas of one finds itself at an exhibition along- side a -Picture of the other, there is an inu-nediate quarrel of the canvases, which, if personified, rnight resemble a dispute between a gruff, good-natured countrynian and a dainty lady gloved, ruffed, and Iaced from the town or somewhere near it. Homer Watson paints bis pictures ini Doon, the saine littie Ontario village where he was born; and of this heavy - set, pastoral conununity sandwiched between Scotch and Gennan settiements he is chief citizen, Justice of the Peace, one of the oldest inhabitants, and the sole lamp of art. Hie paints in the Doon vernacular; and he always paints trees. The trees are usually trunky Watsonesque pioneers that seem to belong to the niid- Victorian age of development in Canada. If he shoul.1 paint an inter-urban trolley he wc.uld rnake it feel lilce a stage coaeh even though it -should, look like an electric car. One passes over the epic sonata of canvases which he did on commission in 915 for the Canadian Governuent ixnpersonated by Sir Sain Hughes They mnay have been good pictures of Valcartier, but they were neither good typical Watsons nor first-rate pictures of a war camp. Ris normal productions are far different. luis landscapes 2,-9",
         "Two Painters of Ontario have that solid-built character as thougli no tornado, ever could uproot those oakish trees. One feels as thougli he might walk into a Watson neck of woods and hew out a double-tree for a teain. There is the suggestion of the axe and the crosscutsaw, the ox-team, and the log-bee, the spinning-wheel and the old rag mat. In Watson these suggestions are as sincere as the dusky light that peers over his low-toned, Puritanising canvases; and they are inherent in the man Homer Watson, who is wel! named. The peremiial character of his work is Homeric simplicity coupled with Sabbath- going restraint. He is the human side of the old oaken bucket. Diligent respectability sits decently over most of bis work. A picture of Watson's must neyer merely suggest-always as far as possible express and define something. The expression is not always poetic and the definition is neyer an epigramn. Doon is evidently an obvious Ontario settiement with ail the rugged virtues rigidly set down in the day's work. 'You feel that evei;' iceihewas old enougli to, smoke a pipe this painter 'worshipped the diligent toiler who rose with the sun. He purveys no mystery. He makes no flamboyant appeal to, the imagination. Que has no remexubrance of any outstanding human figure ever exhibitedl by this craftsman of the village studio. With bis repertoire of rustic folk and villagers he miglit have portrayed more people and fewer Iandscapes. But he neyer wearies of the stout thick trees, the bulging hilI, the cattie trail and the snake fence, the autuxun wind shivering through at dusk and the stodgy days' worker whom he neyer illumines with the tender pessimism of a Millet-because he is too busy with the trees to, paint the human worker at ail. Trickery is impossible with the Watson technique, which in this country is very mucli bis own and occasionally bears some resemblance to the plastic arts. Irnpetuous ecstasy, seizing passièn-he seems to, have very littie. I should not say that lie lacks temperament; rather that lie lias an excess of one variety of its expres- 270",
         "Two Painters of Ontario sion. To fetch more luminosity into bis pictures would be fatal to the Watson genre, which requires a ineasure of gloom-though niuch less now than formerly. Isolated in the village, lie bas clung to the fine old virility of a first- outlook upon nature which is so often lost in a city studio. He was the first President of the Canadian Art Club whc, seceded from the Ontario Society of Artists because they believed in evolution by protest. For some years it was found quite superfinous to, seek for another Presîdent. When the Royal Canadian Academy was founded by Lord Lorne ini xt8o, Watson was made an associate. A few years ago lie was made a full member. Hie is now at the heiglit of bis old-fasbioned virility--and long may lie remain there. ArcbibaldBrowne's picturescontain nopioneerrealisins. A large majority of them for a good maniy years seemed like transcriptions of A Midsummer Night's Dream. Que of bis latest, doue according to the Browne recipe for the co-insinuation of paint, looks like a god-blown soap- bubble bleached out to mother-of-peari; a ghost of a grey salin a swoon of vapour that in tThe foreground may be water and in the background may be sky, but heaven only knows where one begins and the other leaves off. With such an etherealising technique Browne iniglit have ilustrated The Dream, of Gerontius--except tiat lie neyer paints figures. Hie personalises bis landscapes; and it must be adrnitted that a large ntumber of them. are feminine. With a littie elasticity of imagination one miglit take a fair percentage of Browne's pictures as an illustration to, the Ode on Intimations oflmtmortality: The glory and the freshness of a dreaxn.\" lu this business of poetising paint Browne bas taken the moon for a symbol. If all bis moon pictures were hnng side by side they would make a toue picture of Beetlioven's Moonliglt Sonata. The Browne moon is 271",
         "Two Painters -of Ontario unmistakable. Lt xnay be full, quai er, or new; it is always pensive with the pale cast of thouglit. You neyer catch a Bro\"ie moon riding the heavens and brooniig away the clouds with a bigh wind. It is always peering shyly into the nebula of the landscape, between ghosted. trees or over phantoniW waters, to see what the artist bas been doing rather than to give the beholder liglit. Critics have complained that the Browne nioon is flot distinctively Canadian. Browne aptly retorts that the moon is a universal object whibh. cannot be nationalised. But there are turnes when the Browne moon is not even an object: merely a subtlety. Thereg must have been some humour in Browne s original idea to exploit the moon. In so doing he seems to, have worked out an alleged theorem, of Corot that he could paint the saine subject in a hundred vaious ways and neyer repeat himseif. Browne neyer pretended that lie was interprefing Canada by translating the moon; neither can lie deny that a. good many of bis lumar pictures çWuld have been doue quite as well if lie had taken the original sketches to a studio in Bombay. Wliatever the first incention was, thle arýtist lias now somewbat outgrown it. He no longer dwells in the moon- liglit of art. Many of b is. later compositions. are exceed- ingly high-keyed, colourful, and bold--some of tli drarnatic. In fact some turne ago lie broke out iùto a species of realism. by painting old shacks and patches of city streets. -In bis best recent tbings, however, lie lias depicted the big valley and the bold cloud-scudded mountain on some arm of the Bay of Fundy. In sucli things lie revels in luminosity, rea]istic colour, and motion. Even in these lie shudderingly avoids any modem metliods iu the perpetration of paint. A Browne picture is hall done beère lie begins. He mixes bis colours on the palette, flot being sure that the beholder lias either the ability or the patience to mix thein after they are on the canvas. 0f course this* is an old device. But nowadays it requires occasional courage as an inuovator 272",
         "Two Painters of.Ontario for a man to spiritualise bis colours befre he piits themn on the canvas. Browne believes that ne good picture sÇ.ild be any- thinig resembling a literai transcription. He has worked out bis, belief. Nothing is so tiresome to the Browne temperament as the mere truth; nothing so reprehen- sible as the camera. It is the mission of the artist, to, interpret nature by selecting her more attractive aspects and by the use of the poetic faculty to make themn if need be more idyllic than nature could. Grant that premise to Browne and bis cwclusion is obvious. The ugly must neyer be painted-unless, by contrâst to empliasise the beautiful. Rapture is better than realism. Colours in themselves, are not necessafily oesthetic. They must be xnixed and blended with judicious 'subtlety. Merely human interest in themselves most of Browne's pictures, have not. They become interesting by huinan interpretation ini the recognition of the beautiful. He seemns to ignore a large percentage of people who prefer that a picture should be first of al an interesting sub- ject no matter what treatment the artist gives it. He prefers the more perceptive minority who, care lessi for the subject than for the art of the artist who, handies it. Browne is not a Canadian by birth. Accident made this Scotchman a native of Liverpool; but lie is not in the least English, and lie prefers to regard bimself as a Canadian. Which is not possible except in a cosmo- politan Canada. 273",
         ". 1",
         "REV. J. A. MACDONALD MIDDLES]EX COUNTY, Ontario, contributed two orators to Canadian public life, Sir George Ross andi J. A. Macdonald, both Ceits; inipassioned, somewhat bardic cha.racters, both quite celebrated ini politics. and both Liberals. The orations of George Ross, once Premier of Ontario anid for many years Minister of Education, have gone into living history. The orations of J. A. *Macdonald.are still in the rnaking. Thiese- eloquent Gaels camne up out of a fecunci, temperamiental, comxnunity w]iich had two mainsprings of progress, predestination and Libera]ism. Macdonald, however, with a]1 his belief ini what was to be and therefore rnust be, could scarcely have sus- pected when he was a student of the higher catechism on a Middlesex faim, that at the dawn of the twentieth century he would become editor-in-chief of the paper on wbich he had been nurtured once a week along with the syndicate sermons of Talmage. Neither was he Iikely to imagine that the day would corne in igin when he should be the accredited agent at Washington and Ottawa of the Taft-Fielding scheme of restricted reciprocity that drove the Liberal Goverment out of power. His first liberating passion was for the pulpit. The platform, the sanctum, and the lobby came in the fulness of turne. Hé attended college and went out to preach, in the days when great preaching was considered one of the civllising arts in a new country. Once upon a turne while he was preaching to, a rustic congregation in eastern Onta.rio, Macdonald pilgrimaged to Toronto for a week of theological examinations iu Knox College. On the Sabbath he trudged early down to St. Andrew's on Ring Street-seated devoutly before the organist",
         "Rev. J. A. Macdonald began to play the prelude. What a strange, gloomy Scotch place it was! And when the kist o' whustles began to drone in the rear of the kçirk, what unco, vibrations chased themselves up and down the spine of reverend young Macdonald! Neyer had lie heard a pipe organ before; nothing but cabinet reed organs and precentors. This was a wicked instrument and he liked it. Into the pulpit camne a pale-faced man in a black gown who, as lie worked through psalms and pipe- organing old St. Anti up to his sermon, caused the raw- boned young preacher in the gailery to crane over the rail. Neyer had Macdonald heard sucli a sermon; not so much the words as the ideas. That preacher was accused of being a heterocloxist; the first- freethinIng paison Macdonald had ever heard. And because that toc\u003e was a bit wicked, he liked it. That was the most momentous Sabbath J. A. Mac- donald had ever kno'wn; 'when lie stood cn the verge of the nnorthodox, hobnobbing with here\u003eies. After attending college at Edinburgh, Macdonald found hùmself, a young resounding Demosthenes--aso with a slight hesitancy of speecli-pastor of Knox Churcli, St. Thomas, Ontario, a railway town. No Canada Southeru train rushing through St. Thomnas ever :flung the miles over its boiler with finer ecstasy than Macdonald chucked behind hlm the verbiage of a grand sermonising discourse. People drove for miles to hear hlm go up and down the Jacob's ladder crowded with angels; now, and then having for a triumphal text, \" Blessed are the meek.\" Beginning with a zephyr-like conversation, minute by minute lie pulled out stop after stop lu bis pipe-organ discourse, until with ail the diapasons and tubes resounding the sermon becarme a grand ist o' whustles, the congregation -were dumb- founded with awe, and the minister visiting a sick lady on Monday told lier what a glorious time lie had lu the p'ulpit yesterday. Piously lie continued to read the Globe, sometimes 276",
         "Rev. J. A. Macdonald wondering why it was not even more passionate, with sucli a pack of Tory scoundrels at Ottawa violating Mosaic laws. Presently predestination took him out of St. Thomas and lie becaxne editor of the Westminster, a Presbyterian montbly, by means of wbich he was enabled to merge a number of littie Presbyterian papers into a syndicate. With Sir Wilfrid Laurier as a co-inspiration to John Knox, the very year that Laurier swept intô power at Ottawa, J. A. Macdonald beca.me the Principal of a Fresbyterian ladies' college. Hie dallied in a bower of valedictory roses and elocution. He studied the peace movernent. On platforms both in Canada -and the United States lie told of bis fighting ancestors, glorying ini their deeds with claymore and battie-axe -and preaching peace. And when any sceptic asked why sucli a brawny, cloud-splitting man could do sucli a tbing, it was to reply- '\u003cWell, you see, lie is Principal of a ladies' college.\"1 The dynanmo Principal was getting ready for another foreordained inetamorphosis. During those five years of bis dalliance with lingeried curricula, Canada and its politics were undergoing marvellous changes. His chief Laurier and an aggressive Cabinet were making a new twentieth -century Canada. The west was coming to the east and the new world was going to the west. Mere preaching was no longer the great tbing. Behind the scenes a play was going on, and the actors were the editor of the Toronto Globe, the directors thereof, and a capitalist who desired to start an independent news- paper that should tell the truth about politics no inatter whom the truth bit-for a while. It uiglit liave been expected that such a reform movement would have cauglit up Macdonald in a cloud. But almost as sudden as a bomb, from. a Zeppelin, John S. Wiflison resigned frora the Globe to, become editor of the Toronto News, backed by Mr. J. W. Flavelle. The sanctum of the Globe was vacant. 'Macdonald's the mnan,\" said Senator Jaffray, 277",
         "Rev. J. A. Macdonald President of the Globe. And echo answered, «Ay, Macdonà1d's the man.\" Macdonald becaine the editorial exponent of what vas then regarded as the new Liberalism, which con- sisted ini chastising the sins of the old Liberals. His old, Middlesex idol of oratory and politics, Sir George Ross, was the first victim, of what seemed like the new editor's uncompromising righteousness. The famous editorial onq \" barnacles\"'- was a bad blow to the leader of the party which for thirty-two ý,ears had governed Ontario. Other mren xnight look after the Globe newspaper. Macdonald from bis pulpit sanctnm looked after the propaganda. No mani could have done it better. H1e had a train-platform knowledge of many parts of Canada, a glowlng appreciation of big mxen, and a political in- petuosity that xnight have made hini an M.P. but that he played Coesar !or the sake of a better crown. By now the doctrine of predestination had nxany a crimp in it froin J. A. Macdonald. The Boanerges editor was famous for bis 'speeches in Washington and al points north and west; in Edinburgh and GlasgoW; and as xnany Sabbaths, a year as possible preaching in Canadian pulpits. No editor in Canada had ever preached so much; none in Anierica except W. J. Bryan who was a friend of Macdonald; none in England except the late W. J. Stead. lI no part of the world -was the oratory of Macdonald so fainous as lu the United States. Nowhere else did Macdonald on certain big occasions feel so mucli at home. Even in Canada we have at times feit rather proud of Macdonald's bardic oratory, different from. the polished eloquence of Sir Wilfrid Laurier and more impassioned thaxi the speeches of Sir George Ross. We were quite wllling to have the Globe editor go across the border now and then to thill audiences ini Washing- ton. But Canadians were souei-what startled on a Sabbath aftemnoon lu Massey Hall, Toronto, when, speaking at a congress of the Associated Clubs of Arnerica, Macdonald eulogised Canada as the \" greatest country under the Stars and Stripes.\" That was a slip :278",
         "Rev. J. A. Macdonald often made by Auerican speakers in -this country. In the case of Macdonald il: was merely a dramatic lapsis lingua. His audience were mainly Americans. He wished to make thema feel at home. So we follow the preaciler-editor down to the year 1911 -bis fateful year; bis trips to Washington, bis inter- views with President Taft, the reciprocity conferencs, at Albany and Ottawa, and the Taft-Fielding amend- ment to international foreordination, the restricted reciprocity plank in the Liberal platform which the editor of the Globe had helped to make-then the election. The Liberals went out of power and the editor went back to bis sancttun more startled than he had been on the Sabbath when lie first heard a kist o' whustles and a heterodox preacher. He consoled blimseif with the reflection that what had to, be could not well be avoided. Then camne the war; another act of foreordination. The editor of the Globe was a pacifist. When Bryan left the American Cabinet the Globe repudiated Bryan and continued to corne out as strongly as any other news- paper in Canada in favour of the Allies and of Canada's participation in a just war. Since the war began the Globe had been comxnitted to its prosecution by Canada. There was no cry of peace, peace, when there was no peace. Then came the peace propaga.nda again, to wbich the Globe was as much opposed as any other Canadian or British newspaper. And on Friday, October 15, 1915, the Toronto News published a leader headed \" Peace and Pacifists.\" This editorial said: \" Dr. J. A. Macdonald bas been in conférence with Pacifists at San Francisco and delivered there bis well- known address on The North.Axerican Experiment. .. . it is with the Pacifists that the editor of the Globe, a British newspaper in a British comamunity, confers. A British editor, supposedly in a position of leadership in this cou.ntry, goes to the United States and delivers a Iist of denunciations, niot against Germany, not against Austria, but against Europe. . . . Dr. Macdonald's friends in the United States declare roundly that the 279",
         "Rev. J. A. Macdonald British navy is as much a niilitarist organisation as the Gerinan arniy. . . . Does he agree? If he does flot, what is he doing in San Francisco? What is the meaning' of bis fuxious attacks on' European ' militarism?\" These were very inconsiderate questions. The editor of the Ncwis was neyer an orator or he neyer mould have asked thern. Not long after the end of the first year of war that was, to fetch peace upon earth-for corne it must-Rev. J. A. Macdonald resigned* from the chief editorship of the Globe. The editor who, had written the Globe war su.rnuary took bis place. The orator becarne a contribut- ing editoriai mriter. What will he do next? There is notbing in the doctrine- of predestination, to, forecast that. But there is always the platformn. After the war there must be peace. Where there is peace there mnust be oratory. And in the congre- gation of orators there must always be a J. A Macdonald. Tm£C TCMPtE ?a£. OLccéman"
      ],
