      "identifier" : [
         "8_06569_1856"
      ],
      "text" : [
         "1tuttiUU Tracte Review and Insurne Chronicle of Rtntiù TORONTO, JANTJARY 2à, 1918 EBTAItLlgbUS 1867 r expansion of agriculture w 11l help soive wellurn problems. There will be two principal of settiement, farmers with capital, froni th~e d States anid perhaps- Eastern Canada, and diers of the Canadian and h forces. Ry G.WI. AUSTEN, Page 5 Ion Finance of National Brcwer, ,e last year.-Ontar as been sold.-Pric-e E d a bonus of 2 per c\u003c -Latest report of the ina4ia Invcstmnent Ckor ly record of ec's objectio The Week's Topios Tepurchase 14 mruii11. In 11w Umicd states by Canadians; will bc probibiked it thc moveientrl affects our war f*linandn-ii A BýrlIîih parliamnentary coinnittee l.rpote agaiast pri-emi bod- in îlairx o r ýý Page 9 Banking Canada ft-ay b ro prciiun ,f v\\1inge. FIuc- tuaticus during 0we paiý kcw VVII,.Whii thel clearitigN fori thc pasi wvek, Page i.,. [exrcci of iiikt sume: lA Page 14 Life Insurance Life insur;ince klghdaiuiýn iio ~ fCnd and Newfoun land; he ird 0)f oee f arilsby Mr. W.ý B. Taylor, Torontlo, Pagc 34. ' Lue gents- ,should enorg he pub)ic- lu inlake wills;, Pg S. I~LI qtdg lifl1P Page 12 Trade and Commerce Progrcss of h ipbuidin uil repirinlg iii- dusjtry on anovr1anPg . Big stun recived tor farmi produci, ()4 We.trprn Caniada, Page 30- List of iC 0 11) n paie-ý1-0' rei Vin1g charters- 11evI age. 461. In1dul triai activiiy in l3ritiii luinb Page 2 copy 10 cents",
         "THE KONETAIT TIMES ot GxE NERnAL ACCDEN FIRE ANJLF Assurance Corporation, Uimited, of Perth, Scotland PELBO IEOWLAND. THOS. H. HAL. Canadien Advisory Director manager fo anad Toronto Agnts, B. L. EcLEAN. LIMITED TI GENE RAL ACCIDENT Assurance Co. of Canada Au*intie anda *UIBy Im.uwabe iomoPgUSaem matà Iaura.. or k.smm Botter$ vrm.m», *rNmAXI 1'HOSa. 1919BIO. Pruldui t to W. tE.e EUE noTVl.Pn WESTERN ~ ~ ~ V B.TOG WAETEN8UDSWRTMCE FOR CLIENTS. Correspondance Solicited, W. H. SPItOULE. Maager. ALFRED WRIGIHT Proside ALIXý X Manager \u0026 5N'5 Compensa lunsurance Thm Saskatchiewan Mor and Trust Corporatil uIMIoE REGINA Executor, Admlnlstrator, Trusec, Agent, Etc. Mortgagc Jnv.stmentsi tions undereaken for clients. Ever given to affaira of clients ln other Fescal Agent fo ~IC nunscFu iNTO , Call, Tri idon, Kog., 3ought and Volu",
         "25, 918.TRE ]KOETAIY TIXES ERT. R, MASECAIR cbaftre 1«esua SASKATOON, Sask. Bowua.st K.C. Et. L. Rawsi. L.C. D. S. WMAatmsabo A. H. DOUGLAS J. 0. oins.n 3owei, Reld, Walbrdge, Douglas \u0026 Gibson- BARRI19TERB1, SOLICITORU, ETC. Soicitor s for Bani, of Britishi Nor'th Amerlos kshive BuilinIg. 528 Soraouir 8tL, Vaa..uvw. 5.0. LÂRKSON, GORDON \u0026 DILWORTH '!ZRED ACCOUNTANTS, TRUSTRES, R£CCIVRaS, LIQUIDATORS sots Bank Building, 15 Wellington Street West, ToRowTo C- Clar\u0026son. O. T. Caksci, Lockhirt Gordon, RU DilirortI.I Hmtablimhed 104 -- harles D. Corbould CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT AD AIuDirr0 ONTARRO AND 74ANlITOBA Sterling Bank Bldg. Wnie ýorrespofld8lts at Toronto, L.ondon, Eng., Vancouver AL. A* M. DALE OaARTERED AOOOUNTANT rEYBURN SASK. 9RDS, NKORGÂN \u0026 CO., Chartend Âexuuta in Mortgage Bldg,, 10 Adelaide St. E..........TORtONTO, ont . aid Building, Pirtit Street Wet .... CALGARY. Altà. do. Building, Pender St. W. .,.VA4COUyaB.SC' trio Railwabambers, Note Dame Aveint.,e WIUUiPEO. Mua. SI Trust Building, St. lames Street . *'MONTRBAL. Que, Zore EwsdPC.. Atu. Edwards. P.C.A. maseov Morgan W. H. Thoma,... H. Percival Rdwards chas. B. White T. J. Maenaia, Iwards 0. N1. BIwards J. C. Mcob jP. C. S. TURItR WILLIAM GRAY JAMRS ORAN4T IF. C. 8. TURNER \u0026 CO. I chat.rd Areometaunts LAING \u0026 TURNER I Trust à Les. fliMitU. %M lurn H01 nuildint, D. A. Pender, Cooper, Siasor \u0026 Co. CHAUTUE LOCOUNTANTS 805 CONFEDERÂTION LIFIE ]BUILDING il ~ WKMMIPUG RONALD, ORIGOS \u0026 CO. RONALD, NERRrrTT ORIGOS \u0026 CO. C\"rujeAOesuMUR\" AmaiSU,. Trotter* IJquIEaBst Winnipeg Saskas.m Ls.e Iaw London, Eag. R. G. DUN \u0026 O. BSTA8UISHED 1841 Dominmion Banuk Building, Toronto, Oan\u0026d* BRITISH COLUMBIA For opporunities in British Columbia, commuolcate wiii PATRICK DODNNELLY Re.hrence: S., your Baunkef. Dm,'. or Bredotreet BBtuon . HENDERSON. REND) AND COMPANY -l As\"an \u0026=VK.N WINNIPBEO Manitoba MEDICINEB HAT. Albeta. HE?4DERSON, REID AND PATERSON ACADIA BLO0CK, LETH APIDOS. AJherta, W. A. 04,eron. J. b). Reid. R. . Ritch.e Poteries 8.IL uAOe. C.A . J. 1). Wau..soa C A, A Jý WAiaMU C.A. RUJTHERFORD WILLIAMSON \u0026 CO* cb Amaeae TM%saima Uàquidaoeu es Aa\" \"\".e Moisi MdQll ausidang Cible Are-'WI LICOY Rprelleteil lit lIafifux S. John. Wima@itt Vanouver 25, 1918.",
         "I l NEW BOOKLET \"CANADA'S WAR Incluchng VICTORY about tho.ae Th 1s booklet includes tables ah\u003c Domestic Waa' Loans of Canada, 1 British Console, French Rentes a: war periode. Record of subscrip provinces-Record of subscriptiorp 820,035 people out of total po is a (nmure of ,the Cadian Every Viktory Bond h~ yuare sileted, me A. Ta tal Funde ]Rx»ed Carawlan Inves $109,798e2S8.00 $9,00( rXIRIL ANI) 1.111rilt North British and Merci INBURANCE COMPANY Wus. MOU*oAaR Esq. Eus. once DIaECToaS O. N. liONUom #or the 90m\" âgAonai n aiu tAi RANDALL DAVIDSO Hl. N. autv. mea \u0026 OoSI, B.uldont A lavemueat Securites",
         ")ur Land Settiement Problem PROPER Expansion of 4pýiculture Will hreIp Soh'e Posi-Bellum Problems-There Will Be Two Principtal Types of Settement, Ex.L- pertenced Farmers, Witk Capital, From the United States and Perkhaps Eastern Canada, and Ex-soldwers of the Canadian and Brilish Forces. By GEORGE W. AUSTEN4 ke think, wiIl challenge the ass\u003c jef task in reconstruction after ilding up et aur agricultural inutacturing industries wiUl facq .ir experts of manufactures amn; ýIve months ta August, ioi7, the) manufactured $x,ooo,ooo,ooo m, fter the war, eoomically exh; nanufactures, but foodstuffs anxd ihere is industrial reaction-so -ta pre-war conditions, we sh2 sien of agriculture aind on utilizi Fertunately, demands lor fo will bu strong, and prices go\u003c *are two ways te build up agric creasing the output frem farms aging new settiement. Though ;about io per cent. less than ii nately much better, The labar s Dt diminish production. About E ied khaki, and drafts under the 1 e the number up ta So,ooo or mi these farmer-soldiers. the indus L'z such setilers-at certain prices,. Eniftreis considcrable h. specularive profi, the pjricesý stili air comipalatively clieap. ur The railway lands are resnbypîcbecause settiemecnt, ,n. net land profit, is the abjcct, 1: i. in respect ot geveranment- 10. subsldized settleuiern that ru.ai diffilulties. exist, and strong, lU. wise handling ii requirrd if Iropr benefits are to acu rio frem h. iii Whaî are tii bsrctos They censisi \u003ch' - ly ia the. i, eoomic curie ai land peltenthat guis Crown land ef re reai productive utility, h101d1 ht idIe. and force, bona fide )n settlers te scaIter far and wjdeiq te get land ai lew prices. Sir al James AikiIIs, Iîuraîgvrof Maiteba,:% declaird there uic Were 30.\u003c0.000 acres eM land, closec te thr railways. held eut n- ef production in Manitoba. S;askat( hrwan and Aiberia. A large part ofth i\u003e is ld by ill)srllt sPecuilaier%. In Sas. ikatchieman in t,:6. ius provinctil Nurtax of $10 pur s;ection 2) applied te more titan tua million acres-tha:a is4, te lands falrly et well i dsc-ribud ;so; euîvl he-Id idier.\" la Alberia, the. et wïld landu.ý tax, appliud tei sinilar lamnds, was imposd on more a), than eighit million acrres. Thr% arr mau(1tly gaa)d atgric-UlIurui ns lands, that eught te be prioducing, frcuding therawys creat- ct iau weailth fer the homesrii and the nation in general. of They are holding the. wusîý bath, and pruveaiting the proper id s\u003cilution eof eut itmense railwNay problem, It la true that departmuet ofthe Interlor re.ports show mo there aire perhip ,; 0,0 acres of Crown lmnd sitlefor la agriculture\" wîtin 2o mniles of raîlwavi. lion. Dr. Roche le toki tii. lieuse of Comnions ihiere, wre 4,000,000 acres wti n- Ie miles, But wesýtern men describu the Dominion lands ef witiln reasonable distance et the rmilwaysý as. etber foreui La reservalions, aschool endowsnents. heav%,ly tlanbred land or à mairs, Tiiere i liRei Crovn land sutbefor stettiemeat at vithin reas.onable dis;tancer of tic rallways. The Dominion Lit governmnent'q land seultement qcheme cantemiplatrs the plac- le lag of many, many thousand xsodrsor exeleon the .d 1-id tht settlement board. or whatever auitherity eet the land. golng te 'try te reclilm the well4lorated idie lands, i or is it Feinsg for the, neederd aruas% fat away f rom the rail- s. ways ? Thnt iç an important questdion. Land Linder patent Xu lu, of roiurse, s'ublect te the prov-inces,; and perhaps, the remudy of may lie in provincial handi, The prioblemn i. the-re. and ce- ut operation tan 3olve it. le r~erbaim by uitini the çmail celony sertt1rement sysîerm. le workingc i outi gradually as; tht need arises,; tht- land seitie. eh ment board may contrivr to 611 in vacant Crown land- ef if suttable aiiality. If i dore net. tht need of more branch to lines will bu created-and few nvew branchi unes rrenilv built In pay inte-resi on the roa;t, WNh.i iq te bu- dnc, in selectlag lit areas, bad net, ai the time of writing, buta decidud, but the le formation et a recons.trucrtion and develipmenî committe of lu the union joveramnent crraîed machinerv for takinz tip sucit La tasks, It la; worth neting that the Doniinions Roval Comrmis- id sion, inves;tigaitlng Canaidian reerere-oimended t4closur ýIt seilement and added culîlvatian , . fer the. areas now",
         "well provided with railway facilities.\" An\u003e' cempetent rail- way man will tell you that the problenx ie net, at preseit, te scatter our population, te cempel vast new capital outlays ini opening up and organuuing unsettled territory, but to get prescrnt servedi areas properl\u003e' settled. This is the crux cf our problem, and no failse expansienist ideas cmii bide it. Lanmd In PrIvsUe If sds. Canada has, roughly speaking, about îoo,ooo,ooo acres cf tarin lands ini private bands, and only about 38,o00,000 acres under cultivation, We had, ini 1911, about ()33,000 agricultu.al workers cf both sexes. Because of rural deoulto in the tiiet, we probably have ne more new. Is it necessary te open up vast i\u003eew areas, to acceinwnordate mew settlement, when sc, littie is cultivated cf areas new privately ewned ? Rather weuld it net be econemical policy for the r econstruction comxnittee to seit toe liminate the farm-land \"9parasite,» and bring ite productien millions of acres cf idle land in the well-settled aneas ? W. shail be told tbat expansion is geod business. TLhe railways have te spend capital on branches. They bu\u003e' rails, tics, poles, %vire, rellizxg stock ronds are built ; scbools, stores are opencd; new stocks of implements required. B3ut bas not the lessen of the \"construction\" ena-that cf transcontinental rallway building up te 1913-been duly iinpressed on us ? What bas be#-n the financial recuit, te tht Demiin treasur\u003e', of that era? We sec new that the vast borrowings cf that period te build transportatiun plant twenty years ahead of car nereds crrated ani immense liabilit\u003e'. The CaitadiaD Nerthera Railway legisiation in the Iast session cf parliament explains part cf what %ve face. TLhe nation bas large liabili. tits on railway account, if it would prevent~ grave financial occurrences. This mailway problein will b. solved cil\u003e' in one way--and that le; b%- Seutlement and production te create paying traffic. We have definite warnnngs, therefore, te set cgr faces against anether \"expansion\" penied until we bave caught up with steumnt ini the areas new served, No capital exprnditures thait ian bc avoided ought te b. mande until production wvill accrue thrretfrm ini suffircent quantity te give proper returns. For Land snd Loan. l'ht Dominion Land Seutlement Act provides for a quarter section of land free te ansi ex-soldier or ex-sailer cf the forces cf the Empire, A Joan of $_',500 te cacb man, te provide for buildings, improveinents, etc., le, autbcrized. t\u003eeabtless this financial assistance will be given te ex-service metn settliig on Ontario, Quebte or otherr provincial Crown lands. The eaet wlll expect new settiemient als well as tht west. Non. of the. province,, eutside cf Oniario and British Co)lumrbla, ha, made definitr plans to ïkid rqtiuýrne ldi to settle on the land, but the. matter is now being generall\u003e' considered. The wastage of man-power in Europe bas heen se0 great that perhaps uunigration cf geod agricultural workers will b. prohibited. Cert ainly the British govenient, faced with the. preblein of makung Britain stelt-sustainingz, as far as possible, in the inatter cf food, will b. very unwilliniz te let good settiera o But eut ef tht baIf-million -Canadian ex-soldiers, and fie million British ex-seldiers, are we net likel\u003e' te qet at lest îoo,ooo applications for fre land, and tht Dominion loan? At a quarter section ecd, that wvould settie i6,ooo,oeo acres, and the ameunit ef leans woul 'bc $25o,Ooco,ooe. Tht magni- tude cf such expenditures weuld assure plenty -of industrial activity. The putting ef such capital unto permanent jam. prevements on tht land would create much new business, and add heaviiyr, witbin a short time, te ràilwaly traffic. We should net require, therefore, te indulge ini \"plant expansin» except insefar as it directi\u003e' creates production. \"Mier andS Sussestf ui Psvuuv. The Canadian Pacific Raitway land departinent has found thta settier an~d a successful- farmer are 1* no m\u003c\u003e n Io rmaw seuliers. net, bowever, th se te speak, as ment is creatin immigration-a the worle te whi resources, our ~r naturally lead., and w. shall n prizes frein the , Navigation.- bor Association d vice for the f Minîster of t] Conserva Sifton, repniz mission cf G Tht Ontario government is deung :his line, already, and Ontario's u~nities will benefit frein such di rhe seulement preblems in thet aine ramifications, the saine nato: ose ini the west. The Domnio a. special departinent cof coloniza se step, ini view cf the new ixipo Canada le rising, and te 'whicb ou Les ini laid, and newly revealed ( inada new bulks large in the eyce e ive, after the war, econemic rew )rts of cur soldiers in France and RECEIVED report of the In f or 1917. Departmnent ot N; ch 31, 1017- ISSUE 7,\" hy Sir report of t!: ligs of the dte Insuranc ýew ýoerk.",
         "T R E 190 meAv y op - IIIPBUILDING ON VANCOUVER ISLAND Vessels Launched Durtag Past Few Mouth-- Work Pushed Witb Ail Speed hese and other interesting tacts are recited in tht an- eport of the Inner Harbor Association, Victoria, B.C., ublished: hen the great need for ships becarue appdrent the Cai lumber Company, Limited, toperatins' a saw miii ou tht Hlarbor of Victoria, and the Genoa Bay Lumber Comrà operating a miii on Cowichan Bay, Vancouver Island, .zed a shipbuilding cornpany under thet itie of Cameron- Mills Shipbuilders, Limited, and established a ship- in the western short of the Inner Harbosr of the city toria. Work was setarted thereon about the first of June, After the necessary buildings had been erected and achinery insitalled, tht keels for three ships were laid in rapid suiccession, and work thereon pushed with ail le speed. The first ship was launc-hed about Febru- t, 1917- So far 'there have been launched by that con- aix five-masted ýwooden schooners. These ships are 250 ns' over ail, 43 feet breadth ot beam and -,i feet depth 1, with a carrying capacity oft from i ,5oo,oc) oe 1,5000 lumber, Or 2,500 tons dead weight, equipped wîth aux- power of tht Bolinder type of engine, developing 35o power, with a normal sPeed Of 7 knots when engine- Susing oil fuel, and carryrng a crew of 15 men. iey have proved thernstîves to be excellent lumber car- loaded with hîmber for overseas markets as they have ompleted and ready to bc put int commission. These- are classed Ai at Lloyds for 12 years, This shipyard )wi on the ways and under construction four qtean\u003ei ers, which are being bult for the Imperiui Munitions of the British goverriment, ie Foundation Comnpany's yards were established dur- ,surumer Of 1917, antI fire wooden steamers are now on at ýthese yards by the Inmperia] Munitions Board, four care in various startes of progress, and ont wili proh- ý launched in a short time, tht others following ait short Iu. iese steamers are 250 fret long, 42 feet 6 iuches molded it and 2-5 feet inolded depth, with adead weizht carr- Ilu -ddàtion 1 th le lar ge tiiibers an LinkiiiUnh s lîO p , kuicesg. in tfhe t woürldt. hel kuces sci ini t he co y'truia 10o1 -of thelci esl were \u003c\u003etained a!l Co Hil1 ali epet who hiave sec1 ilheni declarc (hey are. th'. %glry bes knw Ced;ïr, \u003epiue aind hirmioçk abouniid of r.Ise.hebs tiuibler area: are as y et, hoýwVer. Il tout Ili, i!i' tht, ikl h.ive hithrto lîitied their oprtosto coas't diintsCAihdîe water cari ageý T'he areal f uir1her Iinindlý ui1l lit r i lit,,! hb. raIilroadts aý (lie country i, moýr eeue Fa.iiti.s for Ship Rmpmlirlug. Asavn a dire(t ber,:tng uponii port rnwvt, t cnw nay b Icailed fat îIitcfo libibidn anid g.lcnr4i iv Driiig diirecty conete h !lhe bia0-but In1 ut Upper larbor o'r Bain, are uM dtt.o of t1w VitoiaMahiey eptharg a fron1tagte of bu \"(\u003e( feti the mIarine ways 111t ttd %%Ii ý 4 radie. 'so fet rilonk by 6') fvet livain, prov\\dlng di %(Ir., k\"Xgc for rpait ingL, t eani ing, etc.ý, for vessel% up Io300 w'T displemet LI 9gel vea ilsar dockeid bIV tht 1îrmi ai the FsquIiImaul tldoluk At the pilant are situated lip) o-~dae mmachieso- boueri shop-s, biacksmith shop, foundrv and patteru sh4IIs, indi large %,blarf for r-cciitng anld sttaef gaodd. Supplius mnd Equlpownt Reay. Cotrat have-g been! obtainecd for thrtiimnufag ure of the- Howden iii.rlii h)oueral for th'- InIperial Mulniilons lad fori ins-aaiiton iii wooden taer nidr o)ns1truction (in isl coas:t litai hicon rthraaid Copn, Lirnited, y Street. elgctric al and niehaIicýal er1nes iron andbrs founders, ma.,ntifaturlàers of ilarine. amI tatoar ngns anho Id cairgo) Wînçhes lThî%1 filrm1 il.trs a rolitrac fort the supi of uwiif hes andq othli e. k m,ýW hîniciy for Ilt Imp11erial Munitions BoIard Thr R ersnrnWrkSoeSiriet. up i moat oh tht eav frtginigs for tht sîeetrîni enTgînes- ai oter macmh iurfor whIich they are, fiiyfi eq upe 0îh stu;am hamriir and compiilete Nplincs Th Rmsa lMcinet Sholp, ilarhi iuIias and enîerSoeSreare aupiplyNig wnhafoi uSCr 011l the stemer forl itht imper1iai MunqlItions iard, Io gethrr with tht i undaijr anti ither sptecial tltiigs, ind Iterrig cniiles. aniidtele Gornason i pa Limiit- cd. r(apital p)1lauig ,1rardi strret, have. suippirid ai large proporfon of ih lnîhe framlng, doors, inow atid boiuse finihrnigs for tht vcsi reetiyl launclbed and arc comrpiingz aimilar worik forI thtliamr buildingz for the, Imprial Munition, Boar.%d. MersIý Moore =Id Whiltilngtonl, of PIcr4aasa Stret, av 4upphevd io hoth the Nhipyards a iL deal aMnoutl) of the- hravr timbe)rIing for the nb,) aid (riing., :%% well àaxth decking anti bouseý franihng tised iii ilht Vatu hip tindor contrutio, esars, Jas. legIih ai Sons e( supjplyirig Ir the shipya.rds (if theoudto Coiiipany andI the, Cimerton Genoia Company a proporTtion of tht eav timbintg and decking and bouseqr work tugtI la the, various ships that av lite. andI are now undr ctrucqiftin, OMtis Wor et Nedm OsP\u0026.~ The firai of Yarrows, Liiteid asoa~lwifli the finti of Yarrows and Copn ,1îmted. of Glasýgow). builders of %hallow draft veseishv exýtensive shiiiprds at Lails' Coi-e., Eqtàima:Ii lirlxo, cotgoto the, prescrit govetn nment drydocxk. Their ma:rinraI w is capabhle of accommo- datngs v ui) ls up b t feet in iti h, y foiot beamr, andI has- a kiatimg capactyt nf ,5x t'ins citadwelgaht La;rgr Vcssels are tIçeked 1w thc firmi a!t ther adjacent grovernmewt dirydock. Their wh\u003earf is over (\"o fee-t in ltigth and hasý shea;rleg% with a lifting cîpc O f (Io tons. Also a floialing crant wAih a os fet blomcpal of liting 10 tons;, Thit flrm ici at pirsent wvorking on a conttart for pr- pelirs for the Impri Muanitions Býoard. for the woodeii steameIrs tindter construction, anIl alsoi for fivr -,ternhee1ers for river service in India, i8ý fret long andI 30 foot beam; two have, bren finished ant iiput into service, while- thec otiier two (and a third 185 fee-t by -l feetI by fctrt) are under con- struction. After behng fuiy assembied it the Esquimai Yardsl and placed in readinreus for tht waîrr tht eses wvhich are of exirirrely, iight drraught ( about 3 fret) %ind practi\u003ceail fi bottomred. are ko n and tht parts sýhipped to the Orient, mhrre they arecrasebt andI Put in running nrder.- They tary both pasýsengers and frelght and miakc about io knots a houir, Contiguouis to the above i1 tht gxuvrnment gravins' docxk, 490 feet in length by no feet in width at coping level and 65 fret wide at the entraince, with a dethof waterof 26Iý ftee. Thisdoclchs available for geneal hilýcpirijz hennot lequiiird by the govertnmtnt.",
         "THE 11 PRUDBNTIÂL LIFIE LIQUIDATION Report of Liquldators on Winnipeg Couîpany's Affair-- Ilow Paysuoats Have licou Made by 5hareholders A financial statement of the position of the liquidation of the Pudentild Life Insurance Comipany, Winnipeg, with soins details as to how payments have beau made by share- holders, have been issued by the liquidators, the Northeuxi Trusts Company. T'ht liquidator5 propose immediately te asIc or an appeintmnn with Mr. Justice Prendergast te con- ýi) The claims undIer life insurance policies, and to decide whether the liquidator shail admit them ail or compel such as are open~ to dispute wo b enforced by judgment. J2) To decide whetber, in viaw of the difficulty and delay in uiaiing collections on the ,judgments and executi\u003c\u003ens we have \u003c\u003eituniied, it is expedient to make a Lurtber call on the shareholoers of the company. \"Or wn conviction,\" says the liquidatars' report, 'li that sufficient mnonay ran be secured from these judgmniets and othcr aissets of dt company to liquidate its entire in- debtedness ia Urne, but the collections for the pas: few months have been so unsatisfactory and sci far 1\u003eelow aur anticipations that we recugnize diat it wili bci a year or more before we can expect tu callect sufficient to pay the debts in full. For the past six mrnths the collections have averated $2,36 per mntAiii, and ilie avtrage for tht next six mont i luxely t be less. Sult Iatittd I\u003ey Mr. MImwr. \"The suit for e2,oo inhtitutedi b y Mr. Miner, the man- aging director, against the coinpn for wroagfnl dismissal, etc.0 bas net been vary vigorously probccuted by Mr. Miner during the last six mentha, and, whilst we have corne te no arrangement ta that effect, we think there is every probability that tbis suit will no bc praceedted wilh, and if procaeded with, we are advised that Mr. Minex's chances of winning the same are«Up todate, out of izS cases that we have of shareholdurs disputing liabili'Y, 45 detfences have been withdrawn, while la :wo litances, involving îj shans, the evidenc prouced wus such as to warrant the court in strikiag t alteaus off the list without the matter being carried to suit. The number af cases tdat bave been comprexaisedi has been in- significant, and in every instance docre has besa gaod and satisfactory reason for such cornptomise.\u003e Tl't items, amounting ta $53,350, appearlag in the liqul- dators' statement of receipts under the head, Insurance Transactions, are the total. of the rectipts and disburuemeaus frein the conduct of the insurance business of tht COMPanY for the period f rom the appointrment of the pravisional liqul' dater te, tht date of dhe ratification of the re-assurance agree- ment with dia Sun Life Assurance Company, which was fellY ooacluded in March, igi6. The raceiptsi nctude the collec- tiens frein preiums, renewuhs, etc., and die disbursementis. such items as aie lacidental ta the carrying on of the ditions it is lim the revenue dt upon these prc the dlaims. Thie Garry prapeuty, upon by \u003ethe compan ooo, bearing ini it was under Il lessee had defa arrangement m sequently ha m new tenant wa terni of three on a basis wh nxately $6oo, h radher tdan alli eventually find ike any disposition of th\u003c nominal. The valuation ou) is practically the amn Y is a centrally located W ted a garage, and was pu ~subject ta a. mortgage cent. At the date of liqi n ai five years, ýbut aire Le terin5 of the lease and Liny to pay $300o a month carry out this agreement in annual rentai of $4,5c rg2o. This places the r w an annual deficit of 2 Lit expedient te, carry thi5 y ha b foreclosed, as it will leave some surplus debantures was fully ra tounting to $13,824. thie na ,anud ii butories P i, lrh:",
         "TUE MONITAIT TIXES 51mw=ý j Cornu Church anmd Court Street*, Toronto\u003e. 0~a\u0026r. Ca\u0026\" ms Mais 14oa, Eraach Exeauge oumeting ai qprtmnt. ilrusi \"Moaud. Toronto.\" ofu sUai 5 mcArtbur Building. Tupbs. biais agl W. Goodall, Western Manager. SUSSORIPTION RATES ar six Mionths Tht.. Mim.*a uhg1 Ce\"y $ 111 11.00 la o.os the ingenuity and activities of limaI nation. Iin Japan, ,where war participation is n4.l so cIcarly \u003clelined, lhere is a mnarkec advanoe ini tle gaitbetring of comricial infor- mation, wvithi a view to ciplturinig tradc formerily donic by other counîtries. T7his hasý resulted aIrcady in a conskler. able inicreasec ii j;iPane,'eý exixirtI Io a nube f '1m-1 portant markcts. While ilhe Unitvd States has immttenise work in the organilzatiun, equipinit and transportation of ils expeditioinary forces, and in thte maintenanice of its, war iutrettni Ixi bing givcn% thevre t4)rpaa lions for- the poî\u003ellmpriudl. ]n Caniada we, tuo find the wvar tas-k doinaîming but wor-k is being donc 1 i manl directions ici pruparc for thr lime 10 lolw Ilic final truic. The United Kingdorn, upo)n whichi lias falleni suicS ai hicavy finatncial and gerieral hourden for more thian tibrec and a hlf years of walias xcrdthe admiration of ils Allies, by the practieaI step, il is taking with a1 view to future tradc. lis war 1usd is trelicindous but ihiat it wll remain a vvry po)wcrfuli commnercial nalmonbi affer the war, despite the. dra11n of tlht sil-zggle-, Ille heavy nationiil delit, and tbe lois of manpll[ower, is quýite crta1in. Evry weclk aimout WC hear of hjiv appoinîmlent of impo-xrtanlt comz- miltes t0 deal wvith pout-bellumi maîètters, It is Flow stated ubat the miinister of reconNîruiction Sasaalihd ini conjunction wiîh ic ireaNur% , a commiitter on financlal lavilities alter thc %,ar, thr obei fwhc i5 to aticipate and provide meShx, ods 10 ovrcomeii thc liniancial dliflicuilîle5 tit will arise in concinwithi comimerce and industry. Th'ti vast nuniber of factories which have been diverted fromi their normal Irade lu war xoile will face a critical perlod betwvieti thet imie wlirn hotliiscaie and the tinie when il i. po)ssible for iliem lu rerturn l, thilr pre-war activitics, for an interval more or les. leigtlhy miust tocc.ur during whichi il wlll nil lic possible lu reverî.r lu former productivenesa, whlcl the querst.ioni (if in restorlng factories to coniditions formierly pirevaiIling will requit'. caretai considcralion atd thtc prvparation of plans to pro- vide the. nccesmary mnoney and capital. Aparl fr-rini liat aspýc--t hhre is tht certainly that large]y ln-creased «-uaIs of raw miaterlals, hilhcr wages, and a mucli grrater valuc on stoc-k in ii or on credit wll have Io be met, requilrinig freli Capital, while longer credit may bc nccessary. soin. of tht most important mlltera with whidi the. ommittere will be empuweredl i deal wili lic the extent of lhe nid that batiks ad finiancial bouses will bc able to ren8cr ; if such hlpi should appear likely ic prove in- SuffiCient, whaî otheçr sucsof crcidit van lie soughl ; and by what metbod can the required capital be niosl efficiently distribialed, ini the event of a shorlage, among essontill trades and Commerce. BONDS WITJt PRIZES The Britlih rlmetr Conmitoe appointed to co0s8*1 the. question of issulng prcmium bond-, lias re- ported againat sucli a step \"at the prescrit lime or unil furtiier efforts have been made to make the preserit iusue$ more attractive to investors.- The ,ommiittee expressd the. opinion that tht op)portunilies of investment foc the perai publie were sufficlent to obtain their fret support, sud liat ltre was. a considerable untapped source of li. vestlment which miglit lic obIained for war needs by th. mens of an issue of bonds wbicii would, by its speulstlve teaii.tit, mtralt seuill investors. Tih. commitlc, how- ever, dourbted whether the lmoWit s\u003e aêtsaied would ,ustify a chanIZe of such a contentlous brcq in tht",
         "* 10 TE MO Volume linncalnitbdsof thC conry hile the legisiation necessary for the Issue of premjjim bonds would be difficuit to obtain Tihlle commri-ittue arriied at the conclusion that fromn £,80,occ,ooo to £î,*oo,ooo,ooo) yearly mnight be ex-. pected fromi sources at presenti untouclied. This report seemns to indicate, that as long as revenue ctin bc obtained thiroughi thc traditional channels, premniumn bonds wilI not be acccpted by the authorities of the United Kingdonm. Sonie of those opposed to the plan thouglit that the losers in prcimiumr bond lotteries would becoine tircd of participating. Such a fa 1lure, after a departure f romn the old linanicial metod, ight adversely affect future operations. Prior to the report of the commiitteü, two cf the large departmntalii storcs iii London opened bureaus for the sale of national war bonds, offering a number of prizes for those who beld certain lucky rtnmbers. The prizes were arranged in series te, cibrace bonds of both large ai small denomination, and each purchaser cf a bond cf whâ ever amounit received a nuiinbered voucher carrying chance lin tht lucky bag. The schemne was a great su ce ss. While the sale cf ýbonds was in prcgress, 'the sterq were besieged from morrting till night, and a larg'e numb of applica2,tions also came through the mail. Hundredsq emrployees were engaged in dealing with the subscription and at Selfridge's alone bonds to the value cf £3,378,oc were sold. As most of them were for smnall amount: per-haps /J5 up te £,o, the number of allotments w,ý large. The total proved to be in excess cf 300,000. T} prizes offered arnouinted to£,,o00 by this firm and £i,sa by Harrod's, whose figures have net yet been announcec These experimients, however, and the parliamentary cor? mnittee's report, witness the 'end of premium bonds in thi Old Cotintry for the present. INSURANCE IN MANITOBA Rtomrs for the. Pust Yea,, Jsast Issued by Provincial Insuranc. Superintendent Hlam Thti foillowilim ottnet f relniums and losses durinq 1916) has been iti\u003eued by Mr. A. 1-:. liam, superintendent of insuranci. and tire ofmssger Manitoba:- Fîeand . ar... .......... 32,8-c',15. Maf -ni u e ....,,,...,. .. ........î Accident ................ 129,07~6.70 Live stock j t),085,11 Automnobile...........75,736-17~ Plate glass -35\"0 Burglary io 10156, 3j1 Tornado .. 5,M3 Other classes 4363 $7-715,5_32-43 Hiail Insurance Co: continued automob The followiing D\u003eominion license Crown Assurance Comnpany, Limnited At November parries cloing bus]] -94,802-81 1 ,102,571-99 176,166.52 46,257.55 i s,tz9.6a Casualty Company 4\u003c ,rred from p~rovincial 'ance Company, Brit ýted, Century insurai rr 154 registered cc anitoba Insurance A ~companies, 42; e and iniscellancus insurance colnpanxes, itee, accident, and pL eistered mail insurar comipanies, 1; frateri comPanies, i; ma e glass insurance co 1 ; total, 154. At Novemiber 3soth, îgi7, there were fifty licensed in P companies doing business under the Manitoba Insur2 clausified a follows-- Fire insurance cosnpanlies .....,.... ........ Lite insurance companies . 6 .. .... Hlall insurance companies ...... ..... ...... 3 Plate glass insurance companies .... ........ 1 Accident insurance companîtes .....~.. lLutual fire insurance companies 6 Employers' liability insurance companies ...... 2 Marine and automobile insurance companies ... 1 il Made. neW c.Ompanies; were adr . .. .... ... ... . 1 10",
         "ary 25, 1918. TRE MOYETAZY TuXES IANK 0F MONTREAL ipita Pald up - - - - UOM Unclivided Profits $1,664,Ufl Total Aggsts - - - $403,96,2X 1BOARD OF DIRECTORLI Sfr vinc.nt Meredith, Bart., PreiMmot Sir Charlas Gordon, K.B.E., Vice-Presidagt . Angus, Esq. Major Hrbrt Mosom.t )rd8Shaughn88yK.C.o. Harold Kennedy, Es\u0026q. ,R. Hosmer, £*q. H. W. Beauclerk, Esq. *R. Drummond, Esoq. G. B. Fraser, Esq. F orbea Aangus, Esq. Colonel Henry Cc*ab*tt. !au. Memaster, Esq. J. H. Aahdown, Loq. Head Office. MONTREAL \u003cIsmeesI MausÉ*e--r Frederlck Wlliaiam-TaIoe. Amlatant Osseai Manager-A. D. BralUuwatte Throudkout Canada and New.unaUm. and Ado.. j A. 1.2 York. c.sBme and ÉIPO\u0026am in QENERAL BANKING BUSINE-SS TRANSACTHO I:GOROarea leu ~S-I o4ORQNTQ [BAD OFFICE, TOIRONTO, CANADA Capital .......... $5,000,00 Assets .......... $34.000,00 Reserved Funds.. $ 6,506,806 iritHRIPT THE CANADIAN BANK 0F COMMERCE Esttbllshd 1887 Head Office TORONTO Paid.ap Capital .. 51,000,00 Reserve Fuad . .ý....... S 13, 5W0000 Sma EDMUND WALKER, C.V.O., LL.D., D.C.L., J4eeùtmd Sia JOHN AIR» ...im .. . ~.Maniw H. V. F. JONES ,. .. uù.t .ai M.nqw- Qyer 375 branches tbrougboi Canada and in the United States, Englaad. Mexico and Newfouradjnd. NEW YORK ACENCY-1S Exchange Flaée Pgais Uomp à Stephes. Asots. LONDONS,ENLNO IE-LoueLL1.3 Cý CANUlaB. 34naes tâ\u0026XGoo SIANON-A.ggua Lan PFmuose, . M. MUIRHE\u0026D. MaesUS' LT. JOHN'S, NEWPOUNCLAND H. 04. ?SWART. M4anar Trhe arge nuaber of branches of thii Bank in aIl pax-tu of Canada enab4a i to place ai the disposal of lis corre- sp@aideus uuexoeIIed facilites (or every klud of baekleg busness with C*adm, and especially for collecioi. Saviags Bank Departmeî nt every Bramcb (Yukon T.ntOtr7 ezc4sptd). STABLISHED 18715 IMPERIAL 1BANIK OF CANADA CAPITAL PAID UP $7,000,000 RESURVE FUND 7,000,000 PUM O fWLAN0. E. MlAY. sýewt omerml UMgr. HIEAD OFFICE * - TORONTO GOVERNME74T, MUNICIPAL and other tIGtI.CLASS SECURITIES BOIJOtT and SOLD f-rmp\"m luvlfti ADDRSS TH1E MANAGER, BOND DEPARIMENT, TORONTO 9",
         "JUDGE SQUGIIT INSURANCE AGENT Man Who Mas Bought Life Insurance Appreciates ht Most \"The duty of the. tif. insburance agent, as cf every agent lte work for the. bene\u0026i of bis principa,\" said lion. H Harvey, chief justice uf Alberta, iii an address to the. Ed montuli L\u003e±e Underwvriturs' Association recently. \"Whateve ether agents, niay leDs. -ight of that fact,\" he continued \"thc tif.- insurance- agenit is notliîkely to stray frein the. pat] of duty in this reSpect, beCCaUSe it is oxily when duty and self interet, coinflict that thie ordinary individual tends te g4 astray. Pointers for Agents. \"Tuer. la net one of you,\" h. added, \"%%hoi doe. no sincerely bcl.ieve that whlen crndcavvring te bring about; Contract of lite insurance lie is honestly serving the. interes oft h~e persen whom lie tries te insure and those dependen on hulm, quit. as much as the interest of bis Company, an( tdii, opinion is sbared by meut thoughli persons wlie talc any interest in life insurance. The agent, however, is ne always viitirely an altruist, but, as bis commission comei frein an effected contract, bis personal lnterest i. entirely il barmony with thnt of the. parties te the. \u003c»atract. But whilg the. agent la quit. convinced uliat his proposai is in the. bes interest of the. intended policyholder, it, unfortunately, oftez bappens thnt the. latter, especially if h. bas never been ap proacbed befere, la net se sure cf it. and upon the. abilitl of the agent te ceavince him depends bis inecess in the. busi neas. If h. bas net the. persuasive qualities, h. niight be.uei confine bis attentions te persens who have alrea-dy talcen ln uaç.Frimn similar expece fim the etiier side 1 fee' littie doubt that a person wbo bas once taken insurance i! a mudi easier mark than one who lias net. Iadeed, for m3 lait two policies I sougbt out tii. agent instead cf waýitinî for hlm. \"The capable mnen employed by the, companies la worklng eut different plans of insurance bave mnade the. work et the agent mudi more simple tban it formerlY uas. Now, therc lu a plan thnt wlll suit almost every condition, and ail the agent requines la te prehs the riglit plan. Most Proteoison fer Suallust Pr.milim. \"Every night-tbl»king mian desires te previde for bis vide and diildren or otiiers wiio may b. dependent on him, se In as tiiey rernain dependieat, and, because lite la uncertain, ai suci man at once sees the. advantage of lite insurance. If bil incomei i. amail, naturally lie cannot apare niuch of t foi insur.iurà\u0026 ,inA t1ia ni-, whIi -i-, hm the mnost DrOtectil ,hle in twenty years, nt indicated most attrn arried through te ma 1 asked the companý ished, but with a lai .n disposed to think die as good returns or been expected had I :recently taken out a ripany, the estimates) ýent as suitable te hi nes received when 1 i those furxnished late Liat the agents obta is hard tc\u003e think that icie. were honest. o~ption that at once pi the. company. Such niurious rather than 1",
         "~ry 5, 118.TE MOIfETARY TIMES stablisbsd ini 1836. Incorporated I'y Royal Charter in 1840. The Banik of 3ritish North America Paid-up Capital Reserve Fund - -$4,8We,66 - $3,017,333 tement to the Dominion Government (Condensed) 31st December, 1917 LIABILITIBS TO THE PUBI ýs in Circulation osits . . . . . . . to Other Banks......... Payable (Acceptances by London Office) ý.tances under Letters of Credit (as per ASSETS à on Hand and in Banks osit wlth Governnment o/a Note Circu-. lation - - - - - - osits in Central Gold Reservo - ernment, Municipal and other Securltlea and Short Loana rein Loana and Discounts and othor Assets Ilitiea of Customers under Loutera of Credit (as per contra) k Premnises .IC $ 5,509,654 57,922,717 605,2S9 1,891,874 1,042,347 $66,97 1,851 $12,88 1,813 245,822 2,420,000 15,045,380 7,240,348 36,029,367 1,042,347 2,399, 523 $77,304,400 lE MOLSONS BANK id-us]. $4,06,64 fern \". \".006,406 Inovpoeated by Act of Parltiment lUS. xAm OFFICE ... - UUBAL BOARD OF DIRECTORS ox MâAoeuaasoN. Preident. S. M. Ewa VkSoe,.u e. B. Drui noe Win. M. irks~ V. W. MOU NO0 Capita Reser Total, MEAD OFI JO G. S. CAbdPI HECTOR M( JAMES MANl S. J. MORI1 General M4 H. A. J. A.ID BI 30 in Nova Smo 7 in Prince Rd Bone ay st. An.aB of~ S'n Motnc\u0026aodtl :BAN IA SC\u003c $- 1peld-up$ ,eFund :ICE - I. BOARD Of DIRECT( HN Y. PAYZANT, Pr LES ARCHIDALD, Vi IELL J. WA CH ESTER W. W E W.»D. Hox. M. C GRAN *nager's Office, RICHARDSON, Qeogi ICLEO, Aat, Ouen RANCHES IN CAJ ~. 1.d 10 la 14 in EN NEWFOIJNDLA Brîgus Catalima urea Channel arbonear Grand Baabevil EN WEST INDI ce\". Son J-a River, Kin~gston, MI.M ,Port Antonio, Port M 1,Savan.Ia.Mat. IN UNETED STAl CHICAGOO NEW CORRESPONDE .L.udo joint Stock B.. Bnof Ne11w York, Chicago; Vo..th Street Natioal Citimes National Sank, Baltimore Cmmrc, Sa. Franciase. F ira a B\",Mbt..u«plia Firet National Si 6,500,000 2,000,000 D,000,000 IALIFAX, N.S. )RS eJide iLTRR ALLISO?4 N. CURRY 'WHITE. M.D. T Toronto, Ont MI manager. al Manager. NADA Ne11w Brnewick ~ND Harbor Grae S(. Johns ,,..Lt End ni* TwWhliga. a. Porto Ric. rES YOK AGENCY) ais kh Ld.3; Royal Bnk 1,.New York; Baak, Pkaadd; iCasadkuank of. ::k, SeIattl.a ary 25, 1918.",
         "THE KONETAIT TIMES Vlm CANADIÂN SECURITIES IN LONDON TiIr Record Last Yea,,-Review of the Market The accompanying table, coupiled by the weil-lcuown London journal \"'Canada,\"ý sets out the price niovements of representative Canadian securities in London during 1917, and the changes as compared witl i gî6. \"On the whole,\" says our contemperary, conzmentiag on tdie figures, \"although iaced 'with strong comnpetition f rom the new loans created to carry on the war, Canadian goverriaen:, provincial and municipal issues have held their ground very well, investors bein-g favorably impressed by the remarkable prosperity cf the countîry and the strenuous efforts it lias made lu its prose- ctlion. Mouthly mnarket movements have, of course, reflected the varying phases cf the struggle, but at tht close the changes are relatively uniniportant iu comparison with those recorded at tht end cf tht three previcus years. It is of in- terest to note that the average quotation of a group cf Can- adian provincial and municipal bond issues is now 82.7 per cent., which compares with îoo.2 per cent. at the end! cf 93 aud affords strlking evidence of the drastie adjiîstments in values resulting from the ntw intereut standard created by the war. Important Rallway Dewelopments. The pait year has heen an eventtul one 6o f ar as the railways are concerrned. Tht incident which stands out witb sharpeut relief is tht report cf tht Railway Commission ap- pointed to enquire intc tht railway situ~ation in the Dominion. This hody's recommendations aroused mudi crlticism lu this country, and was followed later by tht announcenient of the ,govtrument's policy in connection with the Canadian Nortehern and the Grand Trunk Pacifie Rallway. Whilst incr.asing traffics have refltcted tht. prosperity of tht country, tht alarm. ing risc in workig expenses lias caused niuch alarni and! strengzthenedi tht agitation foýr an advance in rates. The un- certalnty of tht attitude of tht governaient ha% deeptntd the depression, whlch bas latterlv characterized this section, Can. adian Pacifie Railway are about 15 points down for the year, tht quotation having recently w\"ealed la syrnpathy vith the Ameirican markcet. the re-inposition of mninimin prices in Canada, and tht- cessation cf treasury purchases. Thë fall ln Grand Trunks ha9 been very heavy, the passlig of the in. tÉrim dlvidends on tht guiaranteed and preference issues and tht obscure outlook accentuating the wvea-knesýs cf the market. At tht close prices rallied a littît on the success of the. new noté issue. The government proposais with regard tq Canadian Northern Raîlway were signalized by sensaý movements in the various bond issues, but the income b after rallying at one tinie, gave way again on the cont absence of dividend. Events In the Ganadian Induatria Seoticu. \"Canadian industrials have been mioderately prom: but final quotations are usually \u003ck\u003ewn on the year, refit general conditions at the close. The hron and Steel has reacted sharply, following its pronounced advance c preceding year, and there lias been less activity in pull paper issues. A favorable feature was the sut\u003estanti2 covery in Cockshutt Plow preferred, but the i per cent. dend recently declared had a dampening effect on the recently indulged by holders, and Canadian Car and Foi preferred, after at one time advanclng to ioo, felu back hg on t absen.e of realization of tht dividend anticipi entertained with regard to this company. An unple event was the furcher beavy faulu in ritish Columbia El Railway issues on the hostile attitude manifested towardi coxnpany by the city of Vancouver. The deferred sto now down no less than 8c, points frckm its July, 1914, le, movement which is not without its signific-ance to those N action has brought about this serious decline. Moi Street RailwaY 4$M per cent. debentures are rather ki Toronto Power Consclidcked 4$ý per cent. bonds, whli onetimre were in the region of go, have lest a large pi their eariier improvezuent; and Montreal Light, Heat \u0026 1 are alse radier lower. Fleur millinq companies, issues PRICE MOVEMENTS IN 1917 Fait ïj Volume",
         "iuary 25, 1,918. THE XONETÀRY TIMES The Doiînion Bank ,n HEAD OFFICE . TORONTO air Enaun, 8. GaS.E, W. D. Eamm. President VIePeit In The London, England, BranchI 0f the Donion Bank at 73 Cornill, L.C. Conducts a General Banking and ForeiK n Exchange Business, and has amiple facilites for handling collections The Standard Bank of Canada Quarterly Dividemd Notice No. 109 Notice is hereby given that a Dividend ai the rate of THIRTEEN PER CENT. PER ANNUN tapon the Capital Stock of thia Bank ba, ibis day boe declared forthb quarter ending January 3sut, 1918, and that the, manne wili b. payable ai the Head Office in this City and at its Branchema on and atter Frlday, the ist day of February, 1018, to Sharebolders cf record of the. 23rd cf Ianuary. 1918. The Annual General Meeting of the Sharebolders will b, hel i th Head Office of the Bank in Toronto on W0ee. day, the 2th off February next, ai 12 o'clock noce. Dy order of thc Board, C. H. KASSON. Tronio, Decenîber 21ai, 1917. Oeneral Manager PAII AUSUTE^AA omt 4 MW ZALLAxD ANK 0nF NL EU W O'àH\"A L\"ES SUP CAPITAL. - US'flALUA RESERVE FUNI\u003e- RESERVE LfIDILITY OF PROPRIETOP.S ASSETS 30th SEPT., 1,16 ... 1~.......... *27 8,871OO.00 J. UBRELL 05MC. Osrlmame 3« BR\u0026NOUIS and LECIES iB the Auttrlet\u0026 d. ffUý O and Lesima. Tb* Bank ttsnt »rydulip ot Autrauà wow Pmuee OtdIias ausnad. HEAD OFFICEi GERGaE STREET, SYDNEY. LONDON OFFICE- li TNIREAUNEEDLI STREET, K,. AOMMa: BANKE OF MONTREAL. ROYAL BANE OF CÀNADA. BANK OF Bimrnase NitOR? AmRlCA (Ssui ia Orders Lvw) bT lié U - TUE F Royal Bank of Canada INCOeIREATUD »M3 Capital Autiiorlzd ............ $ 25,000,000 Capital Padu ... 12.911,700 Reserve and UndlvIded Profits.. .. 14,564,000 Total Asst ,...,..... ,... 336,000,000 HEAD OFFICE, MONTRFAL Sir H. S. 11c1T, pros. E. L. lPEAsi, V. Pr,,. andi Mati. Oir. C. E. NR1LL, General Maniager, 35 Branýies in Canada andi Ncwgloundlantd. Tbiriy-uigti Branches in Cubat, Vorto Rico, I)onilaican RepubMic, Costa Ricat and i Venasurla. BRITISH WEST INDIES ANTI(GUA-St. John'%; 8AIIAMIAS--Naà.au; DARDADOS-Bridgelown atid SpeiNhistown DOMINICA-Roiwau; GRKNADA-St. George's. JAMAI CA-Kingtulon i MONISERRATIPîyi)-ioil NEVIS-Charleoitowns ST. ITTS-Basaterre; TOBAGO-Scnroh TRINIDAD-Fort 0\u003c Spain anti San Fernando; BRITISH HONDURAS- Belize; BRITISH GUIANA-Georgrelowti, New Arnsierdam, and Roe Hfall (Corenlyne). LONDON, NLN [NEW YRK CITY Bak idgs Cr William and Bane. Accoeuts carrled upon favorable lerms. Saflaqa Departmeaî at ail BrianClic. Now Ready) of The Couada Appruisai Comipany Expert detalled presentatlon of the facts wich respect 10 proseut values for war tax purposes. MAditors appreclate the necessity off havig the permanent or fixed asseuu establishcd on thecbasis off a Certlfled Appralsal by a recoRnized auchorlty. MONTRu\u0026L 17 S.John S. 1",
         "MUNICPAL OND MRKETSASKATCIU3WAN'S MUNICIPAL FIN The. Mon.tary Times' Wbckly Register of Municipal Activities and Fiuauoing The extensiun of the term of varloub bonds iasued by the four cities of Alberta has bcen the subject of joint dis- cussion by the mnayors of the municipalities concerned. The chief question consideredl was whether or not the legislature had the authority to lengthen the 11f e of the securities without consulting the bondiiolders. Commïissioner Samnis 6tated at the meeting that h. did nlot think the rnaurity cf ali the bonds 5bould bc in\u003cxeased to 50 years withotit regard tu tht improvements for which they bad been is-,,ued. Hle thought that ini no case sbould the ma- turity be extended -for a longer period than the life cf the imiprovtmnent. 'Fhi ciais in attendance admitted the force of this argument. Asý to whether the legisiature had the power to validate the cities, action the meceting decidcd that it had. The. folIow-,. ing is the f\u003crm in which the recommendation to the Albierta legislature will be matde:- \"Notwithstanding anyffhing contained in the charter or any City or any town, village, rural municipality, local im- provemnent or school act, beginning front January îst, 1918, and notwithstandiing anything ini any by-law or bond, de- benture or other security. the sinking fund for the service of any debt may be reduced to tht annual levy whicb would have been required had the bond, dehenture, etc., had an original Maturity of lifty years f rom date cf issue, or suoh lesser final xnaturity as the council may determnine, rTis provision shall not bc retroactive so far as wo affect any ievy which has been or should bave been made, tp to Decemnber 3 Rut. 1917, anid shaîl flot apply to the propcrty own- ers' share of loc~al improvemnent, \"Not legs than six mnontha prior te the maturlty of the various bonds, del\u003eentures, etc., the City, town, village, etc., shail issue, and the provincial government shail guarantee both as to principal and leterest, bonds, debentures, etc., for the. amount by which the accumulated selnking fund falis short of the. amount required to redeemn the. bend, making all allow- ance for discount on sale andl other expenhes. IlAny surplus in the hands of the sinking \u003cmai trustees or in sinking funil accouait nnay bc umeil to make up the de- ficiency in the amount requlred wo redeeni securities as thsy mature. \"In regard to the bonds of'a tewn, city or uchool district, the town o r city shall have the right to mulest on thi. s\u003cbool debeature sinking fund beiag trea-ted ln the same way.\" Outrernont, Qu.-T'Ihe city bas 1o01d $700,000 6 per cent. bonds to the flrm of Versailies, Vidrcaire and Boulais, at 95 %. Toronto, Ont.-The city will lead the. Harbor Commaission 1,co,ooto assrnt la its sumnier operations, provlidhig the. Ontaio lgislturewill legalize the. action. Ottaw, Ont.-Application has been made. to the. Ontario Railwav and Municinai Board for nermnissionti ssue deboen Review of Activities During the requirements of tended by maay conditions, have a statement issu~ Board, which ce \"Having la and their influen Last Year-Telephone Large- problem of financiag 1 an municipalities bas which, considering the thi a fair degre of suc 3nskatchewan Local Gi cumstances created bý curity miarket, the loc; directed its efforts t iorrowings of local a Lure issues were redun of rural ti figures do, efforts i of succes been autfli companies or constru million do] MUNICIPAL BOND MARKET",
         "riuary 25, 1918. TUE KONSTAZY TIXES -H Capital Paid up Rest - - - $4,000,W0 . 4,750,000 94 Branàue in Camada rART THE NEW YEAR RIGHT opeaing a Saviags Acomut in the Bank of Ottawa Head Ofice and Elght Branches In ToronIto w= x 8-4 King Street West, He.ad Offi. end Toronto Branch. 79 Cburch Street. Cor. Queen West and Bathurst. Cor. Que.i, Haut and Ontario. 122 Yonge Stret Eiabway. Cor. Alorn' Av. Cor, Bloor Wet and Bathurst. 236 Bromdview. Cor. Wilton Av*. 1871 Dundme St.. Cor, HIgi, Park Av. BRANCHES AND CONNECTIONS THROUOMOUT CANADA ESTAULISHED 18US Union Bankof Canada Hlead Off ice - WINNIPEG Pafd-up Capital . . . $ 51000,00* Reserve - , 3,400,000 Total Assets fOyer) 143,O0000 BOARD 0F DIRECTORS Hoa. Pres., SIR WILLIAM PRICE PraidesI, JOHNE GAL?, Bail. Vice.Presidenta, Rl T. RILEY. Eeg.; 0. H. THIOMSON, Use. M. R. Allan. Eeg. Melor.Oemeral SirJobe J. 8. i8uah.~ o.KC 3 . Ba 8lfour, Eeg. W. Carson. F. B. Euen\u0026t.. àuq Riuie Blake, Eegi. B. 1 Cronym. Ueq. R. 0. Mclcc.Bq PA. Bull, Eeg. E. L. Drewry, Ueq. W,,. SaEq S. lia,. Eeg. H. B. SHAW. Oen. UM\u0026ider J. W. HAMILTON. Aseieeeet Gaaami WC have prove in cme years of ban kIng cxpe. rience tia protntiis, vourtoay. ;.d ef Vlckncy maba rot suvvcen; wilh flic Iituriltioni i Weil a% Head ore*~ Kingr lad Bay Streets Toronto ~ BANK OF HAMILTON MEDOFFICE, HAMIILTONI CAIMITAL Av'uioomrî ............... 4,0, CA PiTAL PAID Uv ...............000.W0 SURPLS .......3,5w.000 ai JOHN1 INDUIE, XC.M.O.. 1',eident. CYRUS A. .1110W. Vice.Pmi.dentL Robfn ft*eee 1 PîtIfrido i. Tuambuli 4. P. ISULL, O*emi Maaer, BRANCHES OKTA»i A-taàtg Gtme\u0026y Mitchell Selkirk Atwood Mhnureille MourAold Umoe Bésevill. Hamilton lleu*tmde southampto BiRemu \" te New amoburs Teaivatur Bratfrd Detna Niagara Falle Toronpto ..Kat ted gRant end Nlatua Pelle, S. uit anno North Red OakvlSIe ode obeya West tEd Colle\" àl Delhi S..més Oiusfee vinirfe Lucnoaw Fort UIthun W.. Troont Pordwich Midla Pat E1li Wnlam Pt. William 1ESte. Pr Rwt Woue CW*Imwe EIt1voet.m Pinceto rasiem tp Ra wm P.awaesmms SIar Maito Msefea Rirleiek Aleigr StRe,. 5 APoA marnas Srauer Malstos Cayey Stuivl I Port Hammond Chmin Tabor Selmn Arn ~ Vlaham I YemoeoyeI P~oj Swan Lake Trobelm Primoe et. Roleau, Saekatoon Turford Vancouver B. 14, Yacouver a. Vancouver (Coder Cottage The National Bank of Sootland Incorewated bit Royal Charter and Actt i Parliarnent, B.TA.LIIIIuo 17 Capital Subscribd., .... £5.(,0,00 2,00, ?aid up ...... 10000 6,000 Unc000....00 M 00,0 Re*ery. Fund ...,, 800,000 3 8,600,000 Mead4 OffIie EDINBUROII JS . COCIKSURFI, Ouftral M manALc GfOROJ A. IIUNTER, Serrmtary. LONDON OFFICE 37 NICI10LAS LARENl. LOMUARD ST.. IL0.4 JOHN FEROUSON, Muamar DGL\u003eSMITII, £peleitant blnear, T'h au-teci of Colomial and Il.,g kmfr la undrtahn. and the Aoep- tances of Custora \"1idlm nei 0 , d \"i. e domi , ikid in~ London. erq retired on ternis whwh w0l b. turnoqhed on, ep*cajon . .. ... . ...",
         "THE M PEGGING PRICE 0F WAR BONDS United States Bankers Said t. Disapprove of Plan- Sound Means Must Be Used to Ke.p Price Up Mr. H. Z. Osborne, representative in the United Sta.tes Congress from California, is tht author of a bill, styled by him the Liberty B3ond Redemption Fund mneasure, which provides for the creation of a $ xoo,ooo,ooo fund and authorization to the secrctai y of the treasury tue tiploy al[ or any part of it in the jpurchaý,e of Liberty bonds, when these shall be offered below par, for the purpose of maintaining tht price cf these gev- ernment obligations constantly at par or better, Deprsecltlofl Ciea Conern. Mr. Osborne, discum'sing his plan, say-s: \"The deprecia- non of Liberty bonds, as abown b y the daily quotations ini the rnency mnarkets; is tht subject of îauch ceaccrn all ove tht country. The' gr-eat drive that was made for the sale of bonds influencced thousands of peuple of small mens and resources t\u003c, make investmnents, and they were promised by the speakers who temnporarily reprtseated tht government that the credit of tht go)veru-ment would prevent any possible loss. These represeutations were doubtiess made in good f aith, and the speakers who macle theza, thongh unofflcial, were realiy re- Plrcsentatives of the govtrrnmtat. .\"Mýy idea is that the iutegrity of tht goverament is pledg- cd te, tht People who subscribtd for the Liberty Loa bonds. Amide from. the question of national honor and honesty in- volved is tht onet of policy. W. will shortîy be calltd upon to subscribe to another large loa., and soim. means nmuit be devised for mnintanring the iiew boans, as well as those that have already been iss'ged, and the public, whoie confidence will have been shaktn if deprecintion is permitted te go on, will be disinclied to mûte tht nece-sary subicriptions. Sscotary cf Tressry. \"In tht matter cf operation, I thlnk the secretry of thet trensury cau be relitd upon to handit tht fund ini a wny to secure the purpoe-amcly, te maintaia ýtht price of bonds at par, The secrettuy of tkt trensury cia tise hiii discretioa in buylng bonds offered bekow par, and it there is aay con- spiracy to dtprecinte thern or if they are depreciated siaiply through neglect tu provide a susytaining fund, this provision for stabilizing will bc effective. It will jive courage te tht baks, and thty will talce tht bondi more frely, and th.reby llghten the demands on the redemption fund of tht govern- ment. My opinion hs that n very smaIl portion ofthfie fud whil bc plnctd ia operation. The f nct that tht fund of $ioo.- ooo,ooo exists for that purpose wiil b. very effective.\" Went B.Iow Par. and it is reasonnb would not look fa the goveraimeat ý practised by indiv of public opinion ment artiicially possibility, amoui tbnt the propostd seeks. WIII Offar Sonda. -t h ,t t 1,. \u003e. But more important cot te tht propriety tht prives of its a ctrtainty, in the Lld Dlot accomrplish h legisiation be en -easury bas a fund ls, wiil bt a mattez kerally knowia that t Lis, banks and co- of liqtiidating thel r ounu(1 of the izig of tht law ot mappl,. itions of tht United Sta rious renions tht prive c ýe wtnt below par folci \u003eks, and more recently h agt a voasiderable discoi sturbed many persons,; tatives in Congress pro- [ offence for any ont to an par. Tht proposai di i froin tither the bankers lai Markcet. Mr~ Oqbnrnp, quifCts t ý _f",
         "January 25, i918. TRE 19ONETAIY TIMES 1 THE Merchants Bank 0F CANADA ESTABLISHED IN 1864 Capital Pald-up $ 7,000,000 Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 7,421 ,292 Head Office, MONTREAL Board of D1petow.; Si\" H. MONfAGU ALLAII, Pf..14.\u003cit K. W. BLACkCWBLL. Vioe-President THOMAS LONG FARQUHAR ROBETSON P. ORR LEWIS 020. L CAINS ANDREW A. ALLAN ALFRED) B. EVAN4S LT.-COL. C. C. BALLANTYNE E. P~ ' HEBDE A. J. DAW Es THOS. AHEARJI P. HOWARD WILSON LT..COL. J. R. £100018 E. ' . H8B088. Managing Directof D.0C. MACAROW. 0.ncroi Manaer. T. B. MERItETT, Supt. of Branches and Chiet Inspctr BRANCHES AND) AGENClES QUEBEC flontreal. Head Offie: St James St. ltgatigdon Rigaud rIZS St. Catherine St. B. \"chine Sbawvlia YSt. Catherine St. W. N ot r Daime Sborbrooke 2215 St. Denis St . Sc. Ste. Ajthe es 13i9 Si. Lawrence Blrd: Maaonneuve MeS tRIS St' Lawren~e EIrd. Napierville St. Jerome 62Cen tre St. OrnEstown st. Job« Notre Dame dle 0f me q4ebeo St. Joitt Seauharnois Chateaugmaay Bari. , St. sauveur Vaureuil Bury Grand Mere Qmqo. Verduft ONTARIO rwanlIlg Tiara aie Theamai.L 's il!dtL's e Oronte O..du. et laU Otawa laeu Soued Parti r \"le W a4er11 oge Winmbma Murray's lnterest Tables sho0w the intvret due. on ail \"u'\"' rnvmns Tables ranige from 2ý% to 8%,, from 1 day Wo 368 on suma from $1.00 to $101)000 15 INDISPENSABLE AS AN OFFICE TOO,- SAVES TIME -AS UT Y CORRECT. PrIc. $10 00 Addr.ss ordira% lo B. W. MURRAY ACOOUNTANT Suprleme Court~ of Ontario, Toronto -THE Weyburn Seeurity Bank Cbarter.d by Act of The Dominion Parllament HKAD OPPIlCFi. WRYUVIURN. SASIUTVKUEWAN BmMtAcuaat IN sAeKATCýiISWAII AI Weybun Yow Gras*, Me.TotUgart, HuIbhrite. Midale, RrfiClate, iy n gn, RcvleAaainibtola Beneon, Verwod, ead)n. Tibun, Fxanr Mou.baahxn, Vantagoe, Goodwae, and Osaigo. A GENERM. BANKINO BUSINESS TRA.NSACTED H, 0. POWBLL. Gemsersi Mnage Northern Crown Banik A ws*ra bakint busnes rasemnd sail brances tltucToRI4 pazatsn. VaM. Wm. Re*lnsae W. W. Esuit Efr O. C a. K.C.M.O. B. P. Rlutehiag A.______ Meait ambllabFser BRANCHES IN WELSTERN CANADA A\u0026UUEAà WM.ta Bode Mener C34af sNtv ten Soc Marngoe admonton F4etonq Cadillac Mavmomt H.Il iver att Dubc ége a Se eduLac Dundur. Piate smmt Duval sàouSsé, Il.COL 111111111A \u0026Peli'gEari Grey Portreeve àshcrft WtInwac Pink* Laieié animse, PInaaRa d itle ueh Lake ut' ietat ierkeHari Sal1teeata Vitra Main à S.irk Soidiast Saskatoon WWiam and lmti Btoaiguard EANBAI Shebrooke Smaula. Sedlev %SnurT Lancer Stornaway Stn. tblsart «notAN Lancham Swift Current Brandon AI@ iedz Leurs Vn c\"ttl Alla. Lieri Vioccunt BRANCHE IN EASTERNI CANADA BathFlrnesàkbs. Kn t Burford Kingston Port Dever.,in vs OVPICEUSg OF THSEBN li. Campeleerslanaer j. P. Roet.Supt. B.0. Branchs V. P Coa.y.BeSut. Ratm reranbê 1 Amoante ton At End Arola",
         "TRI KO0NETARY TIMES and, in tact aiter the bonds had declined considerably, aban- doned il efforts te further support them. \"In the case ot the British goveriment secured loans, the Amnerican fiscal agents have frequently beught in bonds when the market was unusually weak, and, as a restait, have saved to the liritish governmntt the dilference between the issue price and the duprcssed market quutation. In addition they have been ini a Position thus tu reduce Gireat Brktain's indebt- edness here. Such purchases have been almost invariably accomipanied by the sale et securities deposited as collateral for the loans, especially if the market price for the collateral proved attractive. \"It has al-,o been reported that in France the minister of finance has a funid for the support et the Frenchi war loans, but the tacts about the operation of the plan have nover been given out, and presuinably the tond ha:s been devoted prin- cipally, if flot exclusivelyl te the support of external bond issues, aniong them -the Angbe-French raised ini Amorica. \"In the opinion cf leading United States bankers it is futile te endeavor te bring back the price ot Liberty bonds -to par by artificial means. It is -their beiref that b y makin-g the next Liberty Loan attractive to investors, thus auto- matically according the saine attractive features te ail previous loans by reason et their conversion privilege, the market for the .3,, and fihe 4 per cent. bonds will promptly improveP concludes out contemporary. BANK OF NOVA SOOTIA The dircwrs of thv Bank of Neva ScOtia have presented an exceptienally strong financial statement te their share- holders, The profits for the year amountedi tu $1,2o5,315, au increaIse Of $43,277 over thosc for i916, which. added te the $584 \u003c\u003e54, brought forward trom the previous year, made $b7,Wavailable for distribution. Of this sum, $1o,o0e was taken te pay the usual dividiend, $6s,ooeé was paid as a war tax on circulation, contributions totalling $44,700 were mnade te the Patriotic and Red Cross funds, $5o,ooe te the ufflcers' pension fund, and $î5o,ooo was written off bailh premises accounit. 'Fli Halitax disaster made a spocil appeal to the Bank of Nova Scotia, and the handsoe donation et * 100,00 out of the year's profits was paid within a few days of its occurrence te the tund established for the relief of its victians, These appropriations lett $560,270 to ho carried \"Ver inte the current year as undivided profit, a ver\u003e' grati- 1 y ing record. The bank's assets total $138,297,245, an incroasec fer the yecar et more than $22,oo,ooo. This is only co of many uvideitces of the bank\u003es strong position~. Actual cash on hand and in the central gold r(etîves aIs security for the~ excess circulation amouints t0 $26,628,000, a UIn equal te 22.37 per cent. et t-he total lia.bilities to the public. The bank ha. given its full share ef assistance towards the meeting ef the presenit financial situation broughit about by the war, and the increase of about $i2,ooo,eo in the various gevernmont. securities held refiecta the extont te which it has particip..ted in loan, te the Canadian goeoriment and adivancos to thse Iiritisb government for the manufacture et munitions and-for te Jaeld is tli and re OANADA'8 OHEESE TRADE IN, 1917 D)airy Comxnissioner Ruddick, in his address at the era Dairymen's Convention recently, gave suint inter figures regarding the cheese trade of tht past year. total cheese hanidbed by the Cheese Commission te Dec 31sf was 1,860,237 boxes\u003e or 155,662,4t.1 pounds. Befo-: commission began operations, the shipments were i boxes, weighiing 10,()56,174 pounids. These, with the b; cf the 1917 Output still in Canada, make a total of: 2,000,000, or 172,62o,ooo pounds, wîth a value Ot $37,54 an increase of $4,0oo,ooo over the output ot 1916. Car experts in 1914 were onby 135,000,000 POuds, su that C has increased lier experts since tht war by upwards oif 4( ooo pounds. Tht value for 1917 was $8,ooe,ooo greatti it woubd have been if the production had been the saine 1q14. Refe: AND WAR war-time relations, Mr. 1 the Banque d'H-ochelagý ieeting last week: peals are made te work -e luxantes, and abready tous and the necessary :o endeavor te replace th, ons, mentally and physic .niit nf îhrift i, th in man-p( to create negicct mcst proi annrinyi tiey nave prove the ethods crf r-ural cl ut of our , AYf.~t ,uu, A the sai rve reî",
         "EXECUTOR'S FEES 7h. proer manag.ment of an Estat. entala akili, experience and 1ab. on the part of the. Executor. wheth.,r he b. un individuel or a corporation. The Rxcutoras rernuneration. in sabe case, îs a amali percentage and it lu fix.d by tfe, ourt an that foi appointin Your Executor the. efficlencyoftheorganized Corporation costs no more than the service of an ir0divldtrnh. In drawlng opi your WilI. w. soflcit appoîntntent as your BEoecutor and refer to euer hirty five years'experience as a reCOMinendatïon. THE 'ORONTO GIENERAL TRUSTS CORPOR ATION aaauuer Admisbtatrg.m, *77,18S.313.41 HeadI omo.. da BAY STREET, TORONTO Panche. - Ottawu Wtialop.g. Sankatcon. Vanouver 'hatd Trust'and Exeutor Company \u003cWrImym Tnse Titia \u0026bd 772at cempen\u003e autborizod toi act as Administrator, R.celver, Executor, quidator, etc., without giving s.cwity. ri est iate of the Conipany'a chargea for acting in aay Trut.a \u0026pacity wiUl b. gladly given. Enquiies solidited. Board or Dir.etoa'. B. P. B. Johnston. K.C., PY.Didfh. iton. W. A. Chaiten W.J Cie xi Marshall, V4ePrside.i. W. K. Georg. W. R. tiJiba. ie.B $âhope, R. Wade. Jacob Kaoler, A.. EcPhrso. tD. B. St..... John Olbaon, Maiaging Dirtor. harred Trust and Executor Company Tzpadem Banik Euibg Tout Canada' Guaranty Trust Company MIEAD OFmCEs S1tANDON Board of Siwc*ss: Ai.aX. C. FRASER, LT.-CoI.. A. L Youura, Preaidecn. Vice-Prealdae. JOHNt R. LITTLE, MaInaging Dkrector. HON. GEORGE W. Bieow,WLLI» FaAEGUSON, H. L. APOLPE, E. 0. CIIAPPELL, J. S. MAàXWELL, JitO. A. MCDOouALD G. S. MUi#xO, HON. W. M. MARI'N, M.P.P., JOHN E. SMITH, F. N. DARIIac, ALEX. A. CAMBRON. D\u003e. A. RERsop. Acta aa Executor, AdMiniatrator, Trustec, Liquidator, and in any other fiduciary capacity. Your Estate may lie Sid, But- wbetber ii invoives one or In.hirv thoij,And,, it 1% etquiIyl) auîitled te, the advantîagea If Trti.î CtInpIny adrminiiiration, Th- t Comlpany weltom~iii-i on Qnînn a4txtnor0 @ai eatales, and givr% themi ieh. sanie i arr, ilhe ~'Pinea experience And judgmnn and 1h.- lrî~ion o( th,- -ane sxfety meaursa a% larger rstacea, ..d -1 Già'w, Dms-ge and jIqraeh, .Yp\u003e 01 on 4ý The Union Trust Comepany, Limited Toronto HERY Ki P. C\u003eFQRHtAM. Pregidrni 4 M MW4NiV UWn,al Mpagh. THE ROYAL TRUST COMPANY uImcuTeas AND TaiýTKWS NEAD OFFICE. MONTREAL Cawro PIý P40e *fl #.aoev. Fond - S1.00.00 BOARD OP oiqaCvOqS Sa H- Mous... ALLAI. C-.O,. Toeoato Braocb 59 Yonge Street a#VGIa L,. sains. MANAposu R. H. Anu*, IL W. faaary K.C. A. b. Bu.uvuyowAiys E. J. C ',auaauwétt IHI. noDa m\"i SNa C440m-et 0ONu... K C.HE clou Si. Loueu, Ka~s lCM.O C. ci. toiaa.s LT -Coi- ItAnarLav Me LausÂàwDS, 0,8 WigtiAu MCMAstasI Mua.U eiaaauavw RoiaOw. Mc. LOIR MSuauaus K.çC.O. Si veaou CaWltc.uAa.xT.V,.O* A B. HOt.r Manager WVIî11 Mlài n g T HE tveagai humnan beang is vr.v uc s.,,-e iormakin a i ;an Ve itII aLaoIutey npae$u.ry chai il b. doue. if w. wguid dlsp.s. ai Our Eset a.w. would wisle, inad osf Icitiiag it ta te Il sp.sicion oi te. La w. The. makibif of WJ TOil DAY wilI net accrlerate dah à single instant. buts ratharten tea ie us c.atisu6d wiih a. actt detly sud prip.tly dette. Tih. Corpora-r FEueccr n i. hey oiý,dal Ea.cutor, Coa- suit wiqh us as t.the maki.9 . your Will. 'ilI 1Fo-mt Free. The Standard Trusts Company 346 MAIN STREET - WINNIPEG H1. MILTON MARTIN Ra Entat.. Ineurane ad Fluatiolai Ag.ut Ppoorio Eana\u0026d VaLluattoa Made EDMONTON - ALBERTA 72 TUGLHE1 StDO. P.o. WRAWER -s XQUITABLE ÂDVANTAGES lhi.hoiderof1an Bl. aaency cont ract befitst net only by thini pr.nabl. atrength and pruatgs of th Ii. e t uy bi.t alte throahh betng able ta Ofr a vuaitt of polIk.* tht miret wit precli*on the. requircrmenta of tbmý iftàrinsspuN1i.. t.ofiaN.opetn ris.ut varicum pointa in catnada for hUaS of chrater and abI ity. wlth or witoixt uperwince i lise inuifhce. The Iquitable LiT. kssurance Society of the. U.S. 120 Broadway, New York iary 25, 1918. THE KONETAIT TIMES",
         "Voluir 1CONTROL. OF BOND ISSUES Quebec Governmnent's Contention and LegaI Opinions Regardlag Power of Rogulation Ia the, Quebec Assembly latwedt, lion. Mr. Mitchell, Provincial treasurer, submitted opinions ubtaineti from Messrs. Eugene Lafleur, K.C., andi Aime Geoffrion, .C., before the Quebec goverument matie its protest against the. action of the. Doaminion government in forbidding tii. issue of provincial or municip al sccuritiýes without thedper- mission ai tii. ministcr of finance, These gentlemen sad: It is clearly impossible ta support the, provisions of the~ order-iin-cauncil under the. authority of tsub-sectiOn 4 Of section gt of the B3ritish North Ainerica Act provitiing for the. borrow- ung of mioney on the. public credit, inasmuch as thie order-in. council purp)orts to logislate wi'th respect to, among otiier things, tlic borrowing of tnoney On the. credit of the province, wiiicii is a inatter of exclusive legisiative jurisdictlon on thse part of the. provincial legislatures, Power of Reguistlon. \"TFurniiig ta thi. power of regulating trade andi com- .merce, it is apparent froni the. preamble of the. ord.r-ix. conrcil that it cannot by any reasonable construction be re- garded as aiming àt the. regulation of trati, and commerce. Thie object of tii, measure il to facilitate the, borrowung of inoney by the. Dominiýon by curtailing the. Provincial andi otiier powei's of borrowing. It is ini no sense a measure taken in the. intLerest of or for the. reKulation of trade and commerce. Except insofar as commricial corporations are conoerned, nonxe of the. governments, institutions, commissions, murnici palities or other public bodies alfecteti by tiie prohibition, are engageti in trade or commerce, and it is a misnomer to place mucli legisiation lin the category of regulation of trade or commerce. Tiiere is no commercial element lin the. borrov. lng of money on their own credit by provincial goverumenes. municipalities, public utility commissions, iiospltals, asylums, ele-ermosynary institutions, rcli'gious, corporations or uni- versities. 'Fic. suzgestioni tiiat the. order-in-counci la isntenti- cdi to reguilate trade and commerce may therefore be dis- misseti as wholly uintenable. The, mere inclusion, lin the, list of bodies or Institutions aisned at by tiie measure, of ln- oorporated companies, sorne of wicl are commercial, cannet bring it into the, category of reg'ulation of trade and comn- merce. 11Cm Thora Be Any Doubt?\" After quoting cases wiiich bave appeartd before the. notice of the. judicial Committe.- of the. Privy Council as examiples to bear, out their contention, Messrs. Lafleur andi Geoffrion continue:- \"Il w, apply the, principles laid down in tisse decisions to the, case under consicleration, can there b. any tioubt tiat the. Judicial Commititec would not extenti the. Federal power possible compi colonial or for, bodies andi cor as a purely fisc \"If urgent any otiier purp, borrowing by: that a similar c of taxation, no' assigins exclusi tion witiiin the obviously comi: \"For these clude, \"we are council Of 22flE they purport to provincial coxux corporated ccm the. provincial 1 money market of pr\u003c !nts, andi of other insti is ear-marked by the p y by the. Dominion for it to assume full contrc ýrnments, it necessarily assumned over provincial section 92, f-ub-seCtiOn 2 )vincial legisiatures dire rovincial purposes. Ti iction of provincial autc ;5rs. Lafleur and Geoffri ,t thie provisions of the. c 917, are ultra vires in5 ial governments, munici istitutions, corporations to the. legislative authb Orpt- must b. section 9~ q In i",
         "iary 25, 1918. THE MONETAIT TIMES 'hoe Hamilton Provident and \"I N V E -S TNýJ M E N T S\"9 Loan Society A MUCH MISUSID TERM Nlan\u003e' who ahou!,1 b,, and th r ti\u003e art ,imyn pmnt o h Capital Subacribed $ . 2,000,000.00 .4 a. »,e mitied ao atr whrinrh.d Capital Paîd-up .1*.111.O00Q ~1 $ \u003e.0aniOt .0 rqrqý'An. h.hI I iti Roserve and Surplus Fuoda . 1,091,062.50 thrniat tis abýagiatf f.ltt4 a hý b.. b.jdpr.rftt T. thoas -?%n ahout Inta mftI aad wi- th o otssIt Total Asset\u003e . .. 4,682,881.00 tht bonda . the Canad$a ,i\u003erfiiànnt %ortSat trpr*io C.a b. 'r 1 fbentures cîthis Society, are a legal inveatnient for Trust ihctMMý th f . p,lto r n t Candto ' . 1_- ncial %rn a r.tutiom Fonds and carry highet current rate ofinterest, de ý a Li-' ( 1N U T V 1P lI - FThU N UD Tht\u003e amt àvlngs Department. Interest allowed en daily balace. is.ad f-r orne hwM,rd d -Jar an p,rd -1 , t f-r 1,i prt11 TOLON.Withdrawable 1\u003ey cheque. Canada Permanent Mortgagc Corporation MOE OLA.COR1RBSPONDENCK INVITKD Toronto Street - - Toronto MIead Office, KIng Street, HIAMILTON. Ont. rada capital aud £,a.rve #mwd IAUS 10 R GB H 0PB, Presidant 13. M4. CAMEROI4. TveaamBSAfIStIt IS I appoint as Executor of this my Whnscectng a Trust Company as an Executor VillTheCanda TustCom any. choseonewhose fixed policy is to give Vil-Te andaTrut oman.\"FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE This brief declaration inatrea for your Fate a clean- ( nxe6hii i l cut management at a lime, no motter 110w remote, .KttabI.admnaeetb l when sound business iudgment and reliable adylceCAILsswAOSSCBE ,$17700 wiU be ugety needed.PIU CAPITALE ANI) SURRE ...17.00.000 'HE CANADA TRUST COMPANY PAIPer CAPTLAN FlanZ Trust. C6o.M ; 'HE HURON \u0026 ERIE MORT%3AGE Th Ipra nadiane Trust~ Co. CORPORATION ictr dnitaoAsgne rte.E. cad Offices .LONDON, Cou HIEAD) OFPIC2t; WINNIPEG, CAN. T. 0. BRBDIH. K... iISE CRfYN. SASKATOO)N. IlEOINA. 90MONTON. CALGARY. Presadent Genýrm anaa AIOYRA»VCOI OVE MOCopraios ONTARIO) LOAN Individu..is have f ound or\u0026 DE BEN TU RE CO. 5 0s febentures an attractive investmnent. Trmsn one to LONDON IoROA'D197(1 Canada five yeara. CAPITAL ANI) ['9vw 0VRUIlS 8,5,0 U.\u003esliie Th Em ift 7 SORTl TIERMI (5 YKARS) Th E pie )E I FNTU R ES5L 570 ~YIFILD INVESTQRS 0 «eurity Loan Comipany ASSETS 0'VER 8,0,0 WINPG an. JOHN MCLAN\u003e', pftSidetItA M. N, aar ND) INVIESTMENT SOCIETY An j ndi\u003e'jua as Execut, o er Macoic TMPL Buiding Lodon.Canaagseet hie Bidelity, hie ahlity. and hie. experience. h. i. er\u003eet t 4 perf cent. payable* hlf-yeary on Deb.uturs aure te die oome da,. in appontinga: persional ezecutor, 1. PURDOM, K.C.. Prealdami NATISANIUL MILhS. Uaa*t teefr. oel net aveUlookhe possibilit hth m ay d i befor r *I your sate i d strlbiite.d a your wlIIl A trst compaur is net sublect te removal, by d.aîh KW~~~~~~ TOOT H Qf~@PN ore its dulies a. eaecutur are complete. orne.o. No. 18Trno îre Toa Assen, I88MAbl. Vic-Pesdet. ERER LNOLISRe. apital P.ad-up, $1.500,000 R.\u003e've. $1,500.000 Debentures~~~1.2 issuno Sra p!ty BAs%, aToaowrotret orTus u",
         "TKE XORETABY TIMES ElGIITEEN NATIONS FIGHTINO GERMÂNY FiV. Others Have Broken Dlploinatlq Relations-List of Belligereuts The foilowing nations are now at war with Germnany or her allies:- Serbia, Russia, France, Great Britain, montenegro, japan, Belgium, ltaly, San Marino, Portugal, Roumania, Greece, Cuba, Panarma, Siamn, Liberia, China, Brazil and the United States. The followving nations have broken diplomnatic r-elations with Gerxnany- China, Costa Ricii, Kcuador, Egypt, France, Greece, Guate - mala. PC]ru, United Staite,, U'ruguay, Brazil, Bolivia, Haiti, H1ondurasý and Nicatraguat. Declarations of war were rnadev by the following countries on the dates noted : Austria v. Belgiumn, August 28, 1914. Austria v. japan, Augusýt 27, 1914, Austria v. Montenegro, August 9, 1914. Austria v. Russia, August 6, 1914. Austria v. Serbia, July 28, ()14. Brui v. Germany, Oictober 26, 1917. Bulgaria v. Serbia, October 14, 1915. China v. Austria, August 14, 1917, China v. Germany, August 14, 1917. Cuba v. German', April 7, 1917. France v. Austria, August 13, 1914. France v. Bulgaria, October 16, i915. France v. Gerînany, August 3, 1914, France v. Turkey. Novernber 5, 1914. Grmian y v. l3telgiumii, A-'ugust 4, 'Q14, Germany v. France, August 31, 1914. Gerinany v. Portugal, March t), 1916. Germaziy v. Rouniania, September 14, 1016. Gerznany v. Russia, August 1, 1Q4 Greait Britain v. Austriai, August 1.3, 1914. Great Britain v. B3u1lgaria, October 15, 1915. Great Britain v, Germany, Augus;. 4, 1914. Great Britain v. Turkey, Novexaber s, 1914. Greece (provisiunal government) v. Bulgaria, Noveniber 28, 1916. Greece \u003cgoverrument of Alexander\u003e v. Bulgaria, JUIY 2, 1917, Greece (provisional government) v. Germany, November 28, 1916. Greece (gove-rament of Alexander) v. Germany, July 2, 1917. Italy v, Austria, May 24, 19)15. Italy v. Bulgaria, Ojcto.berý Io, 1915. Itaiy v. Germnany, August -8, 1916. Italy v. Turkey, August 21, 1915. Japan v. Germany, AuguLSt 231, 1914. Liberia v. Geruîany, August 4, 1917. Monitenegro v. Austria, Aua-ust 8, 1914. Montenegro v. Germany, August 9, 1914. Panama v. Germany, April 7, 1917. Panama v. Auqtria. Decemtber 10, 1917. Portugal v. Germainy, November 23, 1914 (reSOlUtion passed authorizing militairy intervention as ally of England). Portugal v. G .ermanly, M',N î\u003e, îgîs \u003cmilitar' aid granted) Roumania v. Austrîs, August 27, i91i6 (allies of Austria also consider it a declaration). Russia v. Bulgaria, October 19, 1915, Russia v. Turkey, November _3, 1914. San Marino, v. Austria. May« 24, 1915. Serbia v. Bulgarla, October 16, 19I5. Serbia v. Germnan\u003e', August 6, 1914, Serbia v, Turkey, December 2. 1014. PROGRI3SS IN BRITISHI COLUMBIA iMiaral Production Was Substantial Last Year-1 Clearings Large (Staff Correspondence.) Vancouver, january 2ISt, l\u003c feccause of great natural resources, British Columbi been able to recover fromn the depressing times which over the large basic industries imnicdiately before tht and during the latter part of 1914. In The MIonetary 7 a year ago, it was pointed out that neyer before had a big industries of British Columbia been going at one and that the new industries were shipbuilding, pulp r facture and paper-making. Ail these have been opei apace since that time, with the resuit that neyer before provincial figures been so large. Largest Production on Record. The greatest year of provincial production was in when the grand total-minerals, timber, agriculture, cries, furs-was $106,475,8(x). In 1914 it dropped to 714,323, and in liS 5it came hack to, $102,985,495. For the aggregate wiil be approxiMately $126,719,790, while with its continued production and larger prices, will b( larger, Figures for the last two years for which ther ~complete records are :- Minerais..............$ 195s Timber ......« 29, 15o0,000 Agriculture .,..... 30,872,901 Furs ....................2 10001000 Total.. ..........810095,495 Incroase lin Bank llOIarlngýs. That the activit\u003e' has been genera volume iq shown ni-n 1- tii, rete k- I1U0W r Gi 1 and of inci eflecting largel\u003e' conditi( lank clearings in1 1915 2 :reased total in ioi6 of months of 1917 the amo- :ie ast two months of thg han for the prevîous 1 ast, big bank clearings ;real estate transactions at present, theý bank clcý mloveinent. xown b\u003e' the figures o orrpan\u003e' which have re ,vas declared it had -e",
         "MAN SUt\u003eULU MAI\u003cM A WILL '«Likewise the. usual provisions of a will drawn by a Àg.~,, s~~i~,o itor declariig the revoratiôn of ail former wills and d e Agnts houl Alo Enourae te Pulic ng te eecutr topay te tator's just deèts and lu te Do It and testrmentary experises, wii of sorne wse as an i \u003cion to a lay excecuor is almôst e4ually tinnccessary in iSt people understand by life insurance, aud becauise it is simply expressive of usual legal \u003cconseqUqý idies provide for, is payment alter the deatii Ail that is nec.ssary in drawirig a wîiI is to say plainiy and the lnurance agent is tiier-dure frm th one means. Anyone who ran write a Ieur can draw a g the subject of the death of the proposed My wish is not to mnimiize uth valuev of a olicitor in id the provision for thos. dpendent on hlm ing a wili. A will speaksý fot f rom the day it i,; draws .That naturally suggests othe mter cn from the. dav of iithesar deailh. \\Maii thinga inaLy ich provision and almost th irs th~iing ta pien betiveefn lh-,e. ts Sorti oýf the intended bcnelic ,cie accustomed to such malters~ , isthe ques- DaY die or change ibir pKtoii.n oflhers whio shotild bc \"So said Hon. Hf. Harvey, chif jutc of te-cted may, bc bon and i mmv otheri iontinge-nciesýma atidress \u003cc\u003e the. F-mno Life Undriters' A awe accustorredi to ýonsidefniig such matte s will .s inonti. vide for such .ontinKencies, while a laymuiL in many ; a well-estabiished fact,\" lie continued, \u003c\"tiat VýGld rot think of the-m. \u003erity of people pW off makiug a wiii. uu\u003cil in Muet be SIgud. is toc\u003e late, some on superstitions grounds, but \"But if a man wilses a lawyer to \u003ciraw bis wili bv ri sheer habit of iiot doing to-day vihat to ail c\u003ef suci things, tbevic i% no reas!on why- he should ot i Ln as viell be donc to-morrovi, and mauy from \u0026aw one wbicb will ;inswr in the. meantùnei uintil hc Srequires a solicitor toi dravi a, will. LII. in- bave on. dravin bv a srolicitor o)r until :;%ii continge icoulti do a gooti service tio tbe persons tiiey arise bcausej,, h. va'n do lu with lit(Ie trouble and ni)o i couraging them to maire viii,. Tiie formalities are fev and easily underrtooti. l'iewl vila. be in any oiie's indwriting or tvirlueittn, buit it mu] -ases it ia founti' \u003cbat the ma*ter has been ueg- sýigneti ai the foot or enti by fic tes[;ttor oir by ,içmc one i ecause sD many men do faau to m*k vmls uliat his direction for hlm in ite pireserce tif tvo pe-rsans, togc been matie very definite as to hovi the properiy and ilicy mtii ýth i gn as vitueis in hus prciee. I person sixall b. distribute4 if i. dies inete part ail thi. fornialiti reqrd but tberr li; anothr ipon which suchl lavis are basd beiug vi\u003ca\u003c whici, i. mporant andti \u003cat is, that thi. vitncss or their jusi andi tierefore what a fair-mne pe\" banda, or wvie must not bc perrsons viho \u003cah. any bi, havedeciedif b ha mad biswil. Bat udrr heviii because th. la%%w oulti not permit them \u003co ~persn~~ ma b atisfiedto have propry dis the benerfit anti the. provision of the wiii giving tbemn a li would h bc if bc viditsae hr ssmoulti be.iecir.tIiough ini ontiir irspect%, ffeci if their ovin regarding the distribution of 'thir bc- gSlr \u003c\u003e the, wili, person maires a viii and appoints an exector. «ISa ExecU\u003cM, 'Tie testator truated hlm, aud we wiii trust \"A teatator viho hesit.itedti appoýint is wif e exet im to administer thie e*tate vitiiout giviug bevaust of lier lacir of bus.iness irnovietge, coldin however, no i\u003e viiil madie the, court takes tlie cases, have hi% difficulties so)lveti by th, incarne or ii iboever is permlttedti o adminlster the\u003e estate ment polivY, for tiat lat not me.rlv an insurance olc vient sevursty to inaure its biielg administemd. also an iuveatmenit of the. proceetis. Of course, whe u iellls. taking to mair \u003chi lnvetmenrnt, th. insurancer companty w anti vbuldren ar th sr eefcais n outel-dc thc. ordlnary businessý- of ljif innuance andi avis, )st cases no\u003e other pereon cae to tair thei. r as a trust compauy, but ih investuent la, matie lu terr nsiblity of adm lnistering andiIf the value of suit the. lusureti rather than \u003clie brrncftvlary, ;o, voult b unsiderable, aud lu mauy cases wian it i ,~ case if tii, motiey vere plid upon the death of tlie inus inot obtain tie ecessary seuriy w it h the di rirvSS thi. benfl o il risir ant rresponsllit, on. When tie esaei osdrbe htpt long as the neeti forar it(Msç cases lu really better for the.,~ jsaet f the \"It may lie \u003cbat ;omr. via vouti looh viti favor ;terd bcaus th trst cmpaiesare ccu- tis methoti of protection, ait tie sàme urne woulti pref business ari knwho o take inesmet bave aomnething iu the, way of a capital paymeut, whi %rd th(- nrnnertv iz ý wiA,,., *- IitaiInnts are finiçhre tf it ;- \u0026 frn. --i, ,. -1-",
         "y,ý y - ----- 77 Mý 26 Volume6o. TWENTIETH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE MERCHANTS FIRE INSURANCE, COMPANY Head Office, Merchants Fire Building, 86 East Adelalde Street TORONTO CANADA RALPH E. GIBSON, President. SURGEON-GENERAL G, S. RYERSON, JOHN H. C. DURHAM, Ist Vice-President. 2ad ViceýPresident and Generai Manager R. H. GREENE, BLOSS P. COREY J. W. SCOTT W. S. bINGMAN NATHAN H. STEVENS WM. PRENDERGAST. DR. JAMES R. DURHAM FRSDBRIC P. WYTHE, AtbtltT J. WALKxR, C.A., R. WILLIAMSON, C.A., Assistant Manager. Audition Audition REPORT OF. DIRECTORS CASH -S ATEMENT To the Sharcholdere, For the Year Ending December 31st, 1917 Your Directors bel to present the Twentieth Annual Re- REGEIPT8. port covering the year ending December 315t, 1917, together Cash Premiums .. .............. « ........ $281,989-71 with the usual Cash Statement and Balance Sheet of Assets Iliterest on Investments ...... I4,4t)9-21, and Liabilities, duly certified to by the Auditors and passed i3uildings kent-als ...... ... 4,045.00 -Insuranc, .................. for publication by the Superintendent of Insurance for the Commission on Re Pmvince of Ontario. You will be particularly pleased to Re-insurance Claims .......................... 7,943-34 A learn theref rom of the. continued success of the Company, and End-orsement Fees ........................... of the marked progress made in every department. Thié éremium Income was substantially increased, while the Net Earnings, after providing for ail Provincial and Federal EXPENDiiruliEs. Agency Commissions ............... ......... 64 11ô Taxes, are the largest in the histori this Company. Salaries, Directcrsý and Auditors' Fees .. ....... 1111:171-00 The Premium Income, Interest Receipts, Buildin Postage, Telegra s and Express .............. a Rectal$,Commission on Re-Insurance and Endorsement Fees Interest, Discount and Exchange ............... 1,111.38 Printing, Stationery and Advertisinig ....... ... 4,419-38 Were respectively, $316,iio.48; $15,306-74; 04,ffl-00; 0965-97 Travelling Expenses ., ........... and $295.58, making a total income $336,623.97. Law Costs ........................... .... 305 06 z The Net Profit on the year's operations was $8o,498.09. Building Expenses ............................ 2à347' e 'A Dividend of len pet cent. (io%) on the paid-in Capital Light Account , .......... .................... Rent Account ................... 2,71b0-00 \"..i. e $tock of the Company has been declared therefrom and the ffice Furniture and Plans .................... . 1 165.50 \"býlance carried to the credit of Profit and Loss Account, Adjustment Expenses ......................... The Amount ait, Risk now stands ait $49,670,297.oo. The Statutory Assessment and Fe'es ........... . .... 3:305.3s Federal W ar Tax, .......................... nvmber -of policies in force is 44,186, an increase of 2,92o. 2 869-12 . . . . . Sundry Expenditures ......................... 1,711.74 ''*Ébe average risk pet policy ià $1,124. 10. 'The Expense Ratio for igi7 was 33.93 percent., as Expénou of Managément .................... . $103 25\u002608 Fire igaihst 33-97 pet cent. of the previous year. The Fire Loss Claims, 1917 ................ - ... ..... 129605-46 pet cent., and the Profit, 27-04 Ver cent. of Re-Insurance ................................. li Ratio, Was 39-01 4:827-S\u0026 the Net Premiurn Income. Rebates and Cancellations ...................... 1,40-72 Dividend on Capital Stock ...... ............. 7,5011 The fund defflited with the Ontario Insurance Depart- i;., ment for the security of Policyholders is $io6,5oo.oo, and in $246831,84 uddition tobeing greatly in excess of Statutory requirements, Bahunet ................................. X-- the largest made by any Canadian Fire Insurance Com- $3c9,zo8.8z tranir. The affairs of the Company are in a sound, healthy and Balance brought down ........... $ 62,87,6.97 satisfactory condition, and the Shareholderi are to be Cash received upon invesi ......... ts ................ iobw ý00 cénratulated upon the efficiency of the present management. Cash on hand, Decembér 3ist, i9z6 ............ 2,85t.14 The Assets and Surplus were again substantially increased Cash in Union Bank, December .3ist, igi6 ....... 7,327-92 durîng the past year, and there is not a doubtful security or Cash in Royal Bank, December 3ist, igte .... 7,094-1 1 2 1. Cash in Canada Permanent, Dec ember 3ist, 1()1 5,067.91, a«ountof any kind carried on the books. The business writ- tien during iM wae kePt uP to the high standard set in the $ pasti and the increase of premiums during the year was satis- fbetory. Excluding the special Federal and Provincial War Cash invested dur'Dg 1917 ........... - ........ 62,876-95 Cash on hand, December .315t, 1917 ....... .684-29, Tàx4% the Expense Ratio was 3 1. 10 per cent., which, isquite Cash in Royal Bank, December 31st, 1917 ....... 22 317 ýélôW the average, The Books, Vouchers and Securities of Cash ip Union Bank, Decerfiber 313t, 1917 ....... A ,,tbe Company were continuously audited and examiiied durbg Cash in Canada Permanent Metragie'Corporation, Vear4ýaÉd Agency Accounts wete promptly collected. Decet n-ber jist. içi'7 ...................... 5,503:.. 2fý-!' of -which.,is respectfully submitted. l 1 %. 1 1. . l , , RALPH E. GIBSON, Presïdtnt. ï, Ji 'c-",
         "rESTMENT8 AND THE MARKET Notes of Active Companle-Tbdr Fiai ons, Devopets, Extensions, Divide and Future Plans Brik COMPaY.- Thc pl1ant of the Ontari O;akvile wa ohl by the, liquidator, wsIit ito, (bis wrek to Mr, F. W. PaIficid, of M cnts eastern mteîrsts, The price Pa Pftêb.s* MW Foeghegs COonaY.-The 14r cent. on the pieferrtd and pr ç stok f heconipimy to 8haeh 0., PaYable February 1, wrt dtclared at rmte LSmite\u0026-Thr declaration of a b on1 the common stock was aninowiced r \u003cirst extra paymnent that compauy has yei added bo the regular rate of 6 per cent. itted in Septrembtcr, vpf. The bonus is to stock record of February i. The c 1S to sooc. W Ow,, Mili, LkUIL-i, hr financia ted tu th(-hatohr at the annual mec. I, shoxed a decrreMe in produ(iion. the N 1-4in oW After paying fo wnig dePecatin.taxes, rtdr tht mining prof",
         "pa iesj Miit\u003cb lsty~~~uOI.i Bonie ............................1 Pricipl rôprt Losses Last~m Yea InvolvepP $1,362,156 21 Paiiere .............. 8 5- Mntoa. er Liver *Ls\u003c\u003e 2éea livns boac i ing .... - ........ i 2u Adoiin prevmitabl ca........s.. .uc .. 3 The rincpal fire in Manioba ast year inv ldaI 37 Elti liave b ulbs .e...... .i\u003e ........... inisin fr ai toba. in hamn ahIe m4terlal la plces ls21 B c - irin o auo oie ........ 312 cM n f e fionry meo e in eiation, publi Mr. ma , cas 10setie) .. .... 4,8 \"hav ailn foudt b te i. a b. o ghoom umy aidlsses onDIPI the ~ par of t e moivdaey pald erd Ay lare psrpotio of o a e ,w o n the r nfcessiv e riimaoe te ia hinh pla eo wet e am u n te .. . . .. . . . .. . . . 10 ,5 co ta lit e o the pacie bal dropin of aAacmonu aeno e be dts ci rciatte se ubmsehtu a t o nfration resbbcn inWce~a cm . tls oin F o ney an humn if. nl telon tiuto o druetionr cf tods alues pulr ic~s b e ae tou t pna teercassive rsors acceteatnd~ hihri o f~ fie in h ya wr lowssus ae footh comneo is to e ciaIlyddo b th fihrate pre s han thargenea cf li arecopspe posil Ellforta ................. srvn suchdlustrus Destru tion o o o43 Mec ntle sors ......... .... 1 » 102 Barnse and out-uiling ..res....... bose d sercntl a ssoes mOun n ti to15 ove aid ,00 atAat tblcs ...... .. 2,7 a tmewhn fodcs evtln in on s ecaly ness ay de 1ol ......... ... 13 mad fo toe tavare chases oftheuse p'prte thae ~... \" e dsction f o ntructlcn afcindy tw o rsadou-9 loss to ~ c the famn om niotht 2h munin qar lat ......... 9,8 5 nctyrches ..es. ing hae ausd ossies \u003e o ecen t 1584,adth mn-851 init ag~~ 0fs Ofse $28,34 wer diectv dero ce le n in~o~ t heal us f#bco an ig oa ...................$ 3 ?,iS matces. Port-ie frswt 2,62ls eecue ~wth meet osrcto fcimes or i n vo in9$19,7 49arse fo lt ic~ wiig",
         "janUary 25, 1918. THE XONETARY TIMES Eighty%.Sixth Annual Report of THE BANK 0f\u0026F NOVA S\"Co' 0 Capita Paid-Upe $6.500,OO Reserve Fund, $1 PROFIT AND LOSS Balance De c. lth. 191 ,.... .,....... ..,l 4 54,6M 1 Divdend. for \u003es4 r àt 14-, N et profits for yenr, loases by bc deba e timated and WAr TaxOn ciruliatOn te D»e ein 41st, 1917 provlded fur ......... ... 1.29 15 52 Coiit,.butten tu Halilas Reief PF,nd Contributions ta Cafladjâro :Ptrotk, Rif tlhHu and allier Fum@a. Written off Banki Prt-mi.et Acc,,unt da m a: é C arried f orwud D ecnitar1ie, 1417 RESERVE FUNU Balance flecembe r lOti. 191 .... General Statement me at Dleceuubr 318t4 1917 LIABILITIES Capital Stock paid in ...... ,....... 8 6.000.00 Ou lteseryo Fund ............... .......1\u0026o.O,00 Balance of Profits. as per Profit andi Loaa Account . ... .... . .. 510,IIS 47 Divliends declared and unpald .............1,001 s0 Notes o et Banka in circulato,.. 12,171.4227 8l Deposita not bearlng in- titrent .... .. ........S 26,102.1Wl 54 Deposita bearni intereat, includig m9interest Mc- cu d m te ........ 78.235,861 O0 ffl,811.170 54 Balances due to ot her Bank@s in Canada... mîsi 1%4 Balances dute ta Bankas andi Bantin car- re5pondents in the. United Kie*dom.. 73,69923 Balances dute ta Banks and Banking Cor. respIondentn elzewhere tisanin Canada an teU ted Ktegdee ...... 1.268,291 8 Aceptancec unifer Lettera of Credit.. ...,.,.. 18 \u0026lis CHIARLES ARCIIIBALD, Vlce4'residemt. Crû,i ASSIETh' CurrentVoln., Dominion Notes. Notes of eter ak aBA'nc.. dus hy Baunke ad Smokint Cor.smpomdaemîb the Uimted Hinadn and mierlis ueçhante ..ý Bilancil ue y fanb and Manin Cirrvsm3odert elaewhere thin . anada and the i.lnlted Kimudorn. Dençalt in Central 0.old mr~ Domnioane md P\u003erovinoisl (lorrment met urftesv. noi ex eteding market vlue,,,,,, Canadiga. Municipa iénd Slii ertln un, Colnia pulicseutiem ottr than aonadian. naO ejacerdi, mmrket val. Riwy a ae bonds. dmbenturtm and stocks. no exa.edlng matket value .. ... Demand toas in Canada secursi bir zralnond otite ataple commdi s..,, Call and dsummd loas uhnewbce ih*n la Canadà Cmli mmi dernand lema on Camnda meeured b\u003e. bondls. de bentures and stoctas... lePealt %vith the Nlnietmg ef Financee for the. purpoeemof t h \" lrculation f.nd . _.... LoAfas ta SovaCrnmentg n cmniiepmalis ..,, . Othet carrtnt laune and discounts in Caadasat \"f in temal) \u003e Ote, Cu rrent loanx and dîonata iwef hni Canada1(te** rabute of intervst) ............ Libdties1\u003e Cstmanera untier Lerr ef Cedit, cma Per \u003civerduelsbets. mati rnted le%%pom d e Banka RIreniima at net more than ciet. leuamourie writ ten of .. .. SelEtt te hnBn leminel. Otier mase met l.elud.I im the, foreoi,....... Hl. A. RICIIlDSON.(General EcMarig S' CERTIFICATE va Seotla at ite Chief OCilce.a I!eàa t Derember3lst,1917 I ai.. mmd ai -lth certifie b. The Bank ais nt teci il 1he casha ret, l ia ---- -_ , - -,,iimea v a nd correct view of the. state of the ledf the Baunk, 1. . BR0DtIECA. D.cK Md.cCLELANED, CA. 1 u oft he firai of Price. Wateraea 65,10000 on 41000 = ii * 1.042 4,'t 10,411.50on 1.MMG21 - 9;.61,m72 si - J2.32 04 RAPJU).O 04 1110~4.32 7 MOMM.17 21 3.404.lW :%0 j r 7.,1.8 M 0 *I17U401 sr11W,147 z M, 44,5111 49 7.3711.W981 al op as)00 3113,145 0 - d returnI frem - ialnveritoeethe ~ram.atios ofE e statenient of Bank'\u0026 affaire msCo. - il 1111 1111 Ili 1111111 111111111 Ili 1 Illî:",
         "BIG SIJM FROM FÂRM PRODIJCTS Prairie Provinces' Grains, Livestock, Dafry Prc Etc., Brlngs $364,000,0 For four months of the crop year for the grains months for Iivestock dairy products andl wool, the three Provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta, h ~ceived $.364,ooo,ooo and have a lot of produce stili This is according to estimates of Miss E. Cora, Hinc mercial and agricultural editer of the Manitoba Free Moreever f armiers and their families have had in addi- abundance cf good food for themselves and their liv The whole community of the west has sharedl in thel Perity. \"It is a showing ýthat, ini view of ýthe short labor, is maignificent,\" says Miss Hind. Wheat has maidc an unusual showing, due net only high fixed price, but to the largest percentage (neaily cent.) of No. i Northern and better. The Manitoba Free Press estimate cf the crep ii ember last wa1s 214,ooo,ooo bushcls, and se far, thE been ne valid reasen for alterin! that estunaite. This leaVe 102,01_3,o00 uninspected. Of that amount, some 000 is in interier elevators, and atIclast 5,500,000 ian This leavcs 75,oooooo bushels in dxe hands of f arm Wbich 25,000,000 will be recîuircd fer seed, leavixxg 5o stili to corne forward. As the price i- fixed, there is i culty in arriving ai the value cf the uninspected grain. in i at the price cf $2. 18, No. 2 Northern basts, it is $222,288,340, bringing the total value cf the whea alone to ai least $460',79)7,500.95. The actual wheat iý ed is larger than for the same perlod last year, and, ii tien, has the advantage of the hlh fixed Price. Ia s the advance in prices cf miany things which the farmi and must use, thcte is a handsome profit tn these pri The crop -of ail cearse grains is smail, and this eut strikingly in the sinall ameunts of coarse grains i compared with îqî\u003c,. The price for these has been htg the aanoînt received large. CatW., Oh..p, Hoge, Qulte as startling as the figures frein whcat arc turas frorn live5tock, $57,747,762-50 fer cattle, sheep and herses are the returas frein Winnipeg, Calary ai monton, the three great livestock markets of the west. figures do net take miet acunt what is consurned farms and in the maltown and village, neyer ip îhrough any yard, net dors it acceunt for the stock gos direct in the yards of the packing heuses at Edr without passing through the Uuioen yards at all, Every yard has been severely taxed fer reom, and plansu are way for large extensions nt Winnipeg The anctual increase in cattle receîpts at Winnipeg' year was 127,702 head. 0f the total receipts, Manitot trtbuted 112,554, Sak'chwn17,357. Aibrrta 3t eastern provinces 2,992. The lecal consu.mption waa head, 83,258 head went eat and 37,877 head, mnainly si andi feeders, went west, 5,011î head wcnt soeuth. A@ to 8bckes. Ia ali. 73.oiÂ ixead of qtncre and feeder cattle w~ -st ontributor cf she gnt from Winnipeg 4 nainly founidation stoc s passed through the d 1,,243, showing tha requirements for horse at Winnipeg, rlarge trade 1917. There 'whexre ail th total value o rgemen s; were",
         "25, 918.TUE NONET\u0026ILY TIMES W. ood, Gundy \u0026 Compo*any Government and Municipal Bonds C. P. R. Building TORONTO Saskatoon London New York CANADIAN BONDS AND DýEBENTURES Bought, Sold and Appraised t. James Street FREE, FROMI TAXATION W. are prepare.d to buy or oel the varieus domestic War Loess êi mo#t favorable raet. Write for Pariculars RA. MAUX or D3ALY \u0026 Co. »0%A *soolrA BIIltoINU TORONTO. WANTED British Columbia ani Alberta Municipakt Cive ful particulars and price WE WILL SELL Domnion Government Bonds Short date-to pay 6% to 7,% Royal Financial Corporation, Lmtd Capital paid up., $566,220.32 SUIM 70 ROGRS LDG. VACOUVR, .C. Montreal 25, 1918.",
         "TRE XOI3TARY TIMES ail over the province, but mnore noticeablc in the disýtricts be- tween Lakes Winnipeg and Manitoba.\" Saskatchewan liab had a good dairy year, tlieugh the actual amouint of creamnery butter mnade is slightly under that of igi6 and no figures are furnished by the departinent as te actuai amount of dairy butter. 'Fli return: in dollars anid cents show an increase over 1916 of $3,13,o0, but this is exptained by the staieinent that the values given ini to16 were ,relatively too low. The return of $8,Ooo,ooo from dairy pro- ducts is a most satisfactory one. The Dominion goverriment returns on root and fodder crops, which are the only- ones available for these crops, have not corne te hand so 1hat the value, $2o,oo\u003eo,ooo, placed on them is an estimaiýte only. It is, hewever, a: very censervative ont, as the- value in 1916, when pricesr were decidedly Iewer, wvas nearly $18,ooo,ooo. The.re are ne returns for vither poultry or eggs. Up t'O the pre.sent tirne the province lias net ezt;ablished any~ very dlefiie or uniform method e1 f ,(-ecuring and tabulating these figures, which are yearly growing more important. The value of poultry and çggs thisý paît seaso\u003cn inust have rua inte the millions. RECORD PREMIUM ON EXCHANGE Canada Pays It-GoId Embargo May Be Met by Loan- New York Funds in Montreel Since 1913 While the general fereign exchiange market is more or less stagnant, and, in the case of sterling, for instance, sus- pended by arbitrary uneasures, the exchange rates between New York and Canada stili respond sensitively to, the vaxying conditions of finance and trade between the two ceunitries, says the Wall Street journal. Since the flrst of the year the rate for New York funds at Montreal has bie»n moving te a higli premnium, which now has reached D1.2 er $1,000, or 1 5-15 per Cent. Pr(vrniujm This is the highest premnium recordrd for New York exchiangv. Our contemporary adds- \"Thc, recent mnovenient in Canadian exchange, while along the Uines usually niifested at the beginning of the year, bears striking contrast to the quotations of a few months ago. It will bce recalled that towards the close of last year the quotation for New York funds at Montreal fell to, sucb a 10w discount ihat it was (ausing embarrassment te Cana- dian banikers, So mu il ,,0, that a delegation went te Washi- ington and consulted with the Fedieral Reserve Board te obtain relief by the release of soe gold. The board accord- ingly authorized that a total of $25,000,000 gold miigbt bie shîppcd across the border if reqluircd, the gnId t, bce returned when exchange made it convenlent. Suspension 01 Embargo. \"But the gold was neyer sent, the nitre fact Of the tem- Porary suspension of the gold export embargo was sufficimit te break the Canadian exchange situation, and New York funda iimedia.tely begain te move towards paritY again. The reason for the hcavy discounts at that tirne was the sale of Canadian grain bis in this market against exportt te the other side, added to the fact that a strict embargo had been put on gold shiprnents eut of the counry. Canadian gold shipments in fermer years, even thougli srnaJll, were sufficient to relieve the autumuial demnands. \"The reason New York funds have new swung in the other direction is because there is very little exchange 'making' with the suspension of the grain shipments. Added to this is the fact that Canada is aheavy purdiaser here of Steel and other maiterial for the inanufeture of war supplies for Great Britain, which is cavsing a drift of funds in this I *upply. is arty rer S;-. 1- . 1Q17 1916 1915 1914 191-3 1917 1916 1915 1914 1 9 13 1917 1916 1915 1914 1913 1 9127 1916 1915 1914 1913 1917 1916 1915 1 9 ,4 19)13 1917 1916 1915 1914 1913 sharc 1917, camp Higii. january ..8 F 6F 6FP February . .72 P .......53FP .52FP March .... 48FP .......52FP ...52FP April ..3 May ..3 .26FP ....40FP june.20 ... .. . .30 P .. .. F5 Low. Far 4FP 20 F 2FP Far 22 P 28FP Far Far 16 F 9 P 40 F J UlY.......... 40? ....31F .48FP Auguir........i1Z2 .... . .. .«. .20FP 4P September. 8 F ..- 22Fp Ocoe......4 F2 2P .~Par 3P November........8 F .3P Decermber... 3o F . . .....56FP ... . . . - . . 3 P COMPANY at the annual ted profits of ges-the best 7ard frorn a y $234,423. Dii Il I vi-t:- \u003ewn, K.C., Geo. Caveri irand, G. H. F. jones, ise, Hugh F s-, A. Haig roacli agai - 100 exact",
         "muay 5,198.TE KONETAIT TIXES 33 Port Arthur and Fort William Realty Investments nside City and Revenue PrOducIng Property. Mortgage Loans Placed. V'rite us for illusrrated bookiet descriptive of the twin Cîties. renera1 Reaity Corporation, Limlted WlitlItaUiding, PORT ARTUR, Ontari. [ILL \u0026 KEMP, Limlited Real Ltate, Jnaaçe and Financial Agents. 'roperties Managed, Rents Coliccted, Valuations Mado. $ASKATOO)N, SASK. OLDKIELD, KIRBY \u0026 GAIRDNEBR WINNIPEG Brancese-SASKATOON AND CALGARY. geuad an Managers IuY..EwT CoppoRAT10op OC CAAA. LTD. London Office : 4 Great Winchester St.. R.c, ne of te. beut AUTHORKZED inveatuiete for TRUST FUNDS is ou,' 5% DEBIENTURIE Ask for Bookiot \"About Debenures.' .i4-up Capial ..................... Moeve .................. ..... ... .........fl2A0L mets ........................ 1....... ý..742,71.18 the Great West Permanent Loan Oomipan-v , ENG BLACK \u0026 AIRMSTRONG Ree Estat.., Inaurance and Financlal Agenta CENTRAL WINNPEG PRO)PERTIES A SpECIALTY Retvetw# OUIENION 14ANI, Office: 200 Garr'? HuiI4Inil, WINNIPEG (M.uibera Tnrunto Stock Latcharitte Stocks and Bonde dr.i iii on ail Exchaugen, Wcatern ,%e l ui. Write for pxritICuitrg. ROYAL SANIC BUILDING. TORONTO. S507 DEBENTUBLES -5'D/, For' a lited tini. we will iatu. cet-IPluref bearing 5% intereaî piAyabli. haWyu ..Aily. The Dominion Permaent Loa Company il Klug atr eut. Toron\" P. McPHILLIPS, Pretid.at V, M. HOL.AfD. Gen, Managel Six per cent. Debentures ifnti pnaal hm)arl y alS par Mt uny ha incanada. pagtIeul.fra on àrpphcauici The Canada Standard Loan Company L ~520 Mclutyr. Stock WitumIp J. S. CARMICHAEL FINANCIAL AGENT 5.*ea Admise4aared. Proorioa Mom.g.d. SASKATOON, SASK We sod aquIdles f rom Trust Compauka,. Susanks, Eaosutwas, Estates, regrdin UNLISTED SECIJRITIES A. J. PATIISON, JR,\u0026 ., BsOLES 56 KING STREET WEST, TORON4TO Baldwin, Dow \u0026 Bowman Ohart.p.d Accouatants OFFICES AT Edmonton~, ÂIb.pt4. Toronto, Ont. muary 25, 1918.",
         "LIFE INSUR.ÂNCE LJ3GISLATJON Dlfferoenes in - Provuici Legl~ation AU.outng Lite Iasurance Contn.cts I Canada BY WILLIAM 8. TAYLOR, B.A., LL.B. (Third Artil.) New Brunswick. Beneficiaries: A. Same provision applies as in Onitario. Beneficiaries are as follows i. Ordinary beneflciaxy. 2. Preferred beneficiary. 3. Beneficiary for value. 'lhle insured may revoke the interest of an ordinary bene- flciary as provided by the act and appoint a new beneficiary or declare the policy payable to himself or bis estate. a new appointment and in default the sturvïinS beneficiaries shail share equajly, ini default of sur ferred benieflciary the~ benefit goes in equal shares sured's children, if any, otherwise to bis estate. Newfoundiand. Beneficiaries: A. Fractically the same as in Ontario. Beneficiaries are as follows x. Ordinary beneficiai 2. Preferred beneficia 3. Beiieflcia-ry for val, The nsured ma, flciary at any time È pa~yable to any othe, If one or more lifetime and no disp insurance shail be f or beneficiaries lin ec fault of a new app, benefit in equal shý the insured, and if )ke the intorest of an table writing and dec] eficiary or to himself ie beneficiaries die in n is subsequently mac benefit of the sur-vivi hares if more than on ent the insurance shý of the surviving infw. it shail form part of Preferred Beneficiaries: B. This class consists of busbaxid, wif e, cbildren, grand- children, mother, sisters, brotheirs or father of the insured. The appoirîtrment of a preferred beneficiary creates a trust ini favor of sucb beneflciary and withdraws the, control of the insurance except as to apportionment within that dlais or ap- pointrnent of another memnbeit within thait dlass. If one or miore or aIl of the designated preferred beneficiaries priede- ceaie the insured he mnay declare the share of the person so dying foir the benefit cf hiaiself or bis estate or any otber per- son, and ini default of sucb new appointaient suci sbire shall be for the surviving designated preferred beneficiaries ti equal shares, anid if no sucb murvivor for the. bezi\u0026 in equxs1 sbares of tbe insured'q chljdren, and if no surviving drild- ren, shall formn pawt of bis estate. Nova ScoMia. Beneficlarles: A. The insured basafull powr to insure bisown life t bis own charge and ma.-ke the policy payable to, any bene- ficiary, and may revoke the interest of an ordiriary beneftciary at any tirne and make the insurance funda payable to huxaself or otberwise, as he mnay elect. In case of the deatb of an ordinary beneficiary and no new appointaient is made the siviving bexieficiaries shll take, and if all tbe beneficiaries predecease the insured, the. policy shail b. for the benefit in equal sbires of the. survlving imsured's infant children,, and if none snch, shall form part of is estate. Bmneficiaries are as follows i. Ordinary beneficiary. 2. Preferred beneficiary. 3. Beneficiary for value, Preferred Beneftclarles: Bl Preferred bepaiarieiftr nnat of the busbujid. wife. cbuldren, grandchildren and m\u003c Tbe aDpointaient of a prel trust and withdraws the. moue sured except as to apportionme 4I~ r more. reappol -vlving Edward Island. kM. rrel ren, grandcl The int, trust in f av4 power to ap: If one c f;iaQ nrpt le huaband, :nrPA THE MONZTARY T",
         "THE XONETARY TIXES Hettie-Drennanm Co,, Limited Bankers Administrators, Assignees, etc. ItiSuranc anid Bonde Rentai Agents Money to Loan J. 0. UBTTLE, Manager SASKATOON ACCOUNT BOOKS DINDERS, SHEETS and SPECIALTIES Pull Stock, or Speolal Patterns mnade to ourder PAPER, STATIONERY, OFFICE SUPPLIES Ail Kinds. Size and Qualtty. Real Value nu BROWN BROTHER S ummfE StImoo. and Pearl SU'.*.s - TORONTO A Newapaper Devot.d to Municipal Bonda THR ispbisein New York City a daly and yearu been devoied go municipul bonds. Bitnkers, bond dealers, investors and publie officiais conulider Ir nu sudory In iii fieuld. MunlciPtilitie cosider lr te. bogicul ed~ium In wblch t. snnoiaoce bond offerings. THE BOND BUYER Me Wet Era4way riew York, Nq.?, New E4itiom Now Rsady (Send in orders now) Manuel of Canadien Banking Br H. M. P. mC\"RDm Prkc $2.50 PostpaId %uNished b7 THSE MONETARY TIMES 62 Omurch Street * - TORONTO",
         "T HE TO DEYELOP WATER POWER Hon. Walter Mitchell, referring to the coal situation ini Iiis- budget speech in the provincial Iegislatire of Quebec, said that the desirability of the extension of trade ini al directions during the period of post-bellum reconstruction .should cirer bc in mmnd. \"[t mrust bc~ remnembered,\" he continued, \"that manu- factured goods heretofore made ini European countries have been recenitly manufactured in the republic to the south of us, which has been able to furnish the goods te, us, notwith- sýtanding tariff conditions, but that as soon as peace is de- clarud the manufacturers of the United States in order to com- pete wvith Euro)peain manuifacturers, will be vompelled to estab- lishi themselves in Canada or once more lose the Canadian mnarket, and it seems to be very important lhat everything that should be donc to get our fair share of such business, where the harnessing of the great water-powers by muer of enterprise, the building of storage dams for the increasing of energy produced by such water-poweýrs, under the able guidance of the minister of lands and forests, is lessening our dependence upon the coal fields by development of our own «white coul.' \"Increasing difficulties of securing adequate supply of fuel should prompt Canadian enterprise and industry to ad- vertise the adirantage of establishing manufactures and in- dustries bere where oui conditions are so f avorable.\" VULOAN FIRE INBURANCE COMPANY IN CANADA ln addition to operating in a nuniber of the Pacific coast states, the Vulcan Fire Insurance Company, of Oakland, California, is writing some preferred risks through its eastern general agency, Messrs, Henry W. Brown and Sons, of Phila- delphi;t andi New York. The Vulcan, under its Dominion license, is applying for registration in the provinces of On- tario, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta and British Columbia. The company has, fiowever, been operating in British Col- umbia or somec years under a provincial license. As the coin- pany operates as a tariff office in the Unitedi States, it will aise becomer a memiber of the Canadiani Firc Underwriters' Association in Canada. Mr- T. W. Greer, Canadian njanager nf the Century In- surance Comipany, Limited, of Edinburgh, Scetianti, and also managing director of the Pacific Coast Fire Insurance Coxn- patny, cf Vancouver, .C bas bcen aippointed manager for Canada of the Vulcan Fire insurance Comnpany, with Cana- dian heai office in Vancouvvr, B.,. Mr, Greer began his insurance career twenty-two ycars ago as a local agent in Lindsay, Ont., afterwards removing to Toronto, where he travellect as inspector for Ontario for a Toronto company until î9o8, when ho was appointed inspector for the P'acific Coast Fire Insurance Comnpany for Eastern Canada, with beadquartcrs at Toronto. After filling that position for about £ighteen months, the Pacifie Coast Fire decided to oipen a tranch in Toronto to take care of its casteru business, and Mr. Greer was appointed manager of their Toronto office at ithat tiine. In the early part of xiî î, owing to soins changes in the personnel cf the head office officials, the position of general manager of that company was offered te hum, which lie accepteti, andi teck up his residence in Vancouver. Under his management the Century Insurance Company, Llmited, -o Edinburgh, Scotland, entered thc Canadian field in 1914, -ind that comp\u003eany bas built up a large and profitable business. The Vulcan Fire Insurance Company, of Oaland, Cali- fornia, wiîhbhead office at San Francisco, was incorporated in 1910. The company began writing business under the presidency and management cf Mr. Thomas C. Grant, wbo had been for thirty-three years Pacific Coast manager of the North British and Mercantile. Mr. Grant resigned the presi- dency in ig15, and was succeeded by Mr. J. F. Carlston, presîdent Central National Bank cf Oakland, Cal. Mr. H. B. Keith, who for many years was assistant~ t Mr. Thomas C. Grant, was appointed manager of the company. Mr. Keith's long underwriting experlence, coupled wlth bus genlal inanner, thoroughly fits hirn for the responsible posi- itn nf Ino-pr nf titi wpIll-rinnu Pnfi\u003c, roast cnmnanv. MIDLAt4D LOAN AN4D SAVINGS COMPAlh The annual report cf the Midland Loan and i ,Company shows earnings Of $41,298. This, togethe $18,974 brought forward, has been disposed cf as f Dividendl paid July 3rd, 1917, 4 per cent.,,, $14,400; d payable january 2nd, II918, $14,400; andi aiddet to funti, * 10,000, leaving a balance to be carried fori $21,473. The liabilities te the pusblic are matie Up cf di $371,241, and debentures, *526,673., The liabilities shareholders are: Stock, $36o,0oo; reserve fund, $2 dividentis, $14,487 ; anti profit and loss account balanc 473. Mr. William Uenwood is president. The vac. manager, causei ýby the death of Mr. J. H. 11dm, filleti yet. The head office is in Port Hope. The c( sho\u003ews every sign cf continuing its progressive career ,L REVENUES. indications thc gev4 ie end cf March with a e over ail 'domestic expg ;umn will represent the a eut of revenue, leaving ear's war exepn-diture te lccreasing a little in cor Ortatien, scarcity of sup 1the public cf the nec dual decline in customi he fiscal year, it is estir menths will be about TRADE -ar cnded ion aggrej feor the sa the value ni',,~ -,n",
         "TILE MNXTART TIMES St. Cathsrn«, ont.Jinu ;Daljurlnws palivi 4)111r %a% esr.Id Eîma, less, îeo.leus, ai foot «)f St. Paul Street destroytd.Ca1 e by rXplosion Of gas miain in front of bouse. St. John 1..tur 5-Twvx, barrns, large shed and four head of catti of M.r. Alliscn Dibblee were Oestroyed. d-january *0--Main Street tencnment dctee.Estliated ng 15,$Ôt Oon ~ 8S1fl»l Ma.-January ta-Jameis WValton's livory and rs1 frd stalesr werc destroyed, St. Régi$ Falls, Qué. -jimuaiv 18 'fi Nrw York and ~ ttw~Raîilway, statilon Was1 desroyed, TorotL t-Jnury 2.i-Ticoniix building, 2 John- soln Sre a g es.Ftimnated los, on building, Is,ooo; ur on \u003c stc f Anstry and Brown, statioflOtu, $ 12,000. DO- Tr.t. Olt.-Ja-nua;r%, 2_- Tenienrt of 0. Martin was Wateuborugm, N.U.-Jmnuary i6-Store of Mns, Waos.n 01 destroyed. Caused by rats niblbng mnatches, ai-Wintdsor, Ont.--January oflius N! r. Priestmnan wa, W. destroye-d. Caused by explosion of ga5. tel- AUDmTONAL INFORMATION OONOEIlNINC IrIRES ;ey ALREAPY REPORTED Je- Sastoo, Sask-Fire Chie! lleath re-ports; the follow- lunj for the year einded Decormrber 315t. 1917. tO The Munetary- tal Times:-The number of alarms receivrd was io5. Fines in ss, ,tone buildings, nil; flre% in brick buildings, 29, firs in franie buildings, s 15 ; rubbish heapu, 5 ; prairie 6ires, 15 ; fires in muuetal-cdad buildings, 2; fires. in cerrnent buildings, i. Lois e4 on real estate, *37,0o6; loss on per-onal property, $4c),355.51I; total loss, 8Mj6î.5s. Insurance on reril esute, $557.840;, al-. it1surince on prsonal property. $285.5o«); total insurance, $843.340; lusurance over leg, S5s567,99; 1*.. ndt revervod as by insurance. $8,72.56. Sasatobn, Sask.-Fire Chie! lleath reports the following :h- for Decembmn, zga7, to The Mondlary Times:--Nuber of alar-mi recered. zo. Total lors. $20,0.",
         "T BRITISH COLUMBIA ELECTRIC RAIL WAY The JImn.y Car Conhp.tition Favourable Renult of Governmont Inqui The twenty-first ordinary general meeting of the members of the British Columbia Electric Railway Comipany, Limited, was held on Friday, january 4tb, igîS, at the Liverpool Street Hotel, London, E.C., England, Mfr. G. P. Norton presiding ini the unay(oidable absence of Mfr. R. M. Hlorne.-Payne, the Chairman oI the cornpany. The Secretary (Mr. Michael Urwin, A.C.A.) having read the notice convening the meeting and the repart of the auditors, Mfr. Harold G. Brown read the folkwing speech which had been prepared by NIr. R. M. Horne-Payne: Ladies and Gentlernen,-I do not think that there is any. tbing in the annual report and accounits which requires special explanation. It is with very great regret that your directors have decided flot te pay the interirn dividend on the Five pet Cent. Cumulative PrefereDce stock, hithert\u003e paid in january of cach year and to postpone the consideration of the divi- dend on this stock until the end of the firiancial year. This decision has been made in view of the llncertainty as to the amount of the cornpany's carnings in the imnmediate future and ta the fact that we cannot prudently continue to pny the larger portion of this dividend out of the reserve fund. The resiuîts of the year undvr review-riaiely, the year ended 3oth june, 1917-have only enabled us ta pay the full divideu\u003cl on thue Five per Cent. Cumulative Prefereiice stock iby re- sorting to, the reserve fund to the extent o! 444,ooo. In the preceding year we had ta take £70.000 frai» the reserve fund in order to inake the sanie payment, Since the annual report was lssued we have received by cable the statement of incarne and expenditure for the month of November, showing an inc rease in gross earnings of $52,862 and in net incarne of $31,772. Thus the gross earnings, for the first five monthi of the current financial year show an increase of just under $200,000 over the earnings for the saine period of the pre- ceding year, but unfortunately the increase in the net income for the five months only amounits to $29,000, Or, Say,. £6,ooo. MRRKED IMPROVIiiEWT IN TRADE We can, however, take sorne~ encouragement from these figures, as the increase in gross earnings 1. due to a very marked improvement in trade and business conditions in British Columbia, which bas every indication of being of a permanent character, If, therefare, as 1 result of the report of the recent Commission of Enquiry, jitney competition is abolished and other çonditions arc fairly adjusted, there is a sound basis on which ta biaild hopes that less difficuit times are in store for us. I shall say very littie to-day on the siub- Ject aI the policy and prospects of the colnpany. They are dependent on the resuit of negatiations now being carried on with the abject of brlnging about a fair and satisfactory rearrangernent of workinz conditions based on the Commis- sioner's report, and I amn debarred from discusslng them by the fear of saying anything which might possibly lead to misunderstandinç or friction in British Columbia and preju- dice these negotiations. I will confine myseif to recafllng ta your minds what ha. taken place during the past twelve rnonthu. From the beglnning of the war until the end of igi6 th, company's earnings fell away lxeavily owing ta decreased population and stagnation of trade and te the comPetition oI what is known as the jitney car, and at the sarne time the cost of labor and supplies lncreased enormously until bur net earnings barely covered Debenture interest. In Sep- tember, i9r6, the company had vol untarily granted an increase in wages costing #z uo,aaa per annum to enable the mnen te meet the increased cost of living. In june, 1917, the m'en that the inquiry should include a1 thorougli investigati the whole scope and eý,ery departinent of the company's ness. The company andth de city undertook to abide t recommendations of this Commission. In the meantiji company agreeti to reinstate its services andi temporar grant the men's demanti for increaseti wages. DIREOTORS' CONTENTIONS SUSYAINED. On the i uth a! july the Lieu-, enant-Governor, in Ca appointed Professor Adamn Shortt, of Ottawa, a Co-m with wide powers, and during the xnanths of july andi A Professor Shortt helti a very searchïing public inqi~ury in couver an-c Victoria. His repart hias just reacheti us, an~ findings and recammendations are now in your hands. will note with satisfaction that your company and manDagg have corne through the ardeal entirely creditably, and the Commissioner sustains the contentions of your diri with regard ta jitnev campetition and on other imp( points. Professor Sbortt fintis that it is flot possible for an efficient tramway service and a jitney service ta con, andi also, inter alia, that our charges for electric iigh high while aur charges for the transportation services wE are low, andi he proposes a readjustinent af the5e ch andi services anti the elirninatian af jitneys where they into, competition with aur lines. We have now had the p\u003eoý cf the companiy andi its relations with and duties toward people aI British Columbia subjecteti ta an exhaustivei tigation, revlewed and adjudged by an impartial trib anti we have basteneti ta express aur willingness ta act ( deciuions andi recommendations in a loyal spirit We te, the Government and iii the vqriniuý minr;ý -f followil 1917, al e, togel thereou esolutia; ) questi",
         "25, 1M 8.yTUE XOAETAY TIXJES 'le Imperial Guarantee \u0026 Accident Insurance Company__of Canada ors' Thirteenth Aamual RePort for the. Twelv. îonths J3ndîng Thfrty.flrst December, Nieteen Huhdred and Seventeen e Dîirectors have niuch pleasure in subrnitting to tht olders their Thirteeinth Ainnual Report for the twelve ending 3155 December, 1917. The Comrpany issued i8,096 policies for insur- lESSi ance of $35,x65,701 .oo. The premiums thereon amrounted to *3t0,657.37, heing an increase of '.18. Tht interest earniin«s amounted Io $19,539.75. an increase of $1,053-15. Tht Assets of the Company now amount te gi $478,031,83, anid the investments of the Com- pany are ail first-class securitits bearing good t returns. Tht Contingent Reserve Fund new amowsts to .Use *25,oo.oo, and the surplus to polikyholders 16 $312,560.07, whkch, together with tht uncailed bed Capital of $8oo,ooo.oo, inakes tht available security contracts $1,112,560.07. e hunes cf Insurance now written are: Personal Accident )ce, Sickness Insurance, Elevator Insurance, Fidelity tee, Plate Glass Insurance, and Automobile Iusurance mng insurance of Automobiles againat Fire). e Certifkcate of tht Auditors is appended to tht Finan- ttement as to the audit of tht Compauy's affaire. HERBERT C. COX, munte, aîth January, i918.Pedat atement for Year I3ading Decemuher 3 fat, 1917. PROFIT AND LOSS AOEOUNT, Denmission and Expen5es .,........ $258,104, ce and Refunds ................ 2-88 or Unearned Premiums, Devember 1917 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. i o2,86o. 86 Dr Outsan\u003cn Clis...... 2109 Contingent Reserve Fund . ,.... 5,000-00 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .o.. . . . By Balance l'lotit and Lo--ý L)cuib il j, Ig6.$~)07,4 Preiuma 1 3\u003c,6'57.3 7 \"Interest ..... 19-539 75 Reserve for Uncarnvd Pirminums, Deemnbi-r 'Rtservr fLor Ouuîtanding (taisi Decetntber 31St. 1gô . 136360 *545-665 55 MALAN(E SUEE Bonds, and Debeaiture%, dt-prrciatrÉi value C ..*3,t3u Real Estate ....,2,365-03 Loans on MorItags 0, 9000, (X Accruaed Imterest ...,, .... ..... 2,207.14 Outstmndinq Premiuins \u003cRe\u003cte o 1w Included in Liabllities) . .. ,.... . ...... 42.484 (x) Other Assets ... ..,... 11,924.44 Cash ln Baniks brariniz Illtçrefl .......3 Cash in Banks and on hand .....,,,,. 1.3 Reserve for Filcd and Unauled Cl2i1 ...... sîîa.o .Suu4lry Arrrued A.ccounts ....,. -. , X'). C0 DvdndPavable Janun ast, ious .. . S. \u003e. Contingent Reserve Fund 2,0.v Surplus over ail Liahilitic, 87-5\u00261 07 *478A.11-83 AUDITORS' CERTIFICATE, W. have audlted the accounits of the lauprral Guarance \u0026 Accident Insistance Coinpiany of Canada for iht, year cnd ixag D)ecemnber l'st. 191i7, W,, havi, cxamined th~ ectrt and verlfted tht Cash anad Banik Balances and we certify that the a.bove l3alance Shrt shown the trucr position çcf the, Comjý pany at that date, CLARKSON, GORDON\u0026DLW TH Chartrred Accounta.nt,. Toronto. î mth Jarniary, 19)18. An order for the windlaç up of the Arrow L.akes; Lumber Conapany, was made by Chief Juti(-e Hunier at Vaneouver on Tuesday,* on the applic;btiou of Mr. J. 1. G. Abbott, ap- peariug for the Lafayeute-Lamb Lwabrr Company, whikh heMs a Judgment for *2,2x)4.o00 agaiins-t the Arrow Lakes Company, accordlng to a Vancouverdipt, The imposslbility of getting power at less than *46 pet horse-power may lead to tht Brizih-Arnerica Nickel Comepany. of Sudbury, abaudoning plans to erect a large nickel refinery in that district. For morne time past tht cernpany bai beem discugsingx tht question of power with the Ontario Hydre- Electric Commission, and it was hoped thax power Might be developed on the French River for about $25 pet horse-power. The advauce, in the coct of material and labor, aud iu bor- rowing rates, has, hrought estimat,ý for tht propo'sed power plnt up te a point thm mens $46 power. Tht compa:ny, it is stated. is looklug to Ottawa as a possible site for its 25, 1918.",
         "THE MONETARY TIMES Vlm IDIVIDENDS AND NOTICES i BANK 0F MONTREAL Notice is hereby given thât a lvIdend of Trwo-and-one- Hait par Cent., upon the paid-up Capital Stock of this Institu- tion bas beexi declared for the current quarter, payable on and after Friday, the First Day of Marcb next, to Shareholders of record of 3ist Jalnuary, i918. By Order of the Board. FREDE-.RICK WILIAAMS-TAYLOR, General Manager. Montreal, 22nd January, igiS. THE CANADIAN BANKC 0F COMMERCE DIVIDEND No. 124. Notice is hereby given that a quarterly dividend of 2$4 per cent. upon the capital stock of this Bankc has heen declared for the three months ending 28th February next, andi that -the sanie will be payable at the Bank and i-ts Branches on anid after Friday, ist March, igî8, to sharebolders of record at the close of business on the x4th day of February, îgi8. By Order of the. Board. JOHN AIRD, General Manager. Toronto, igth january, 1918. THE MONTREAL CITY AND DISTRICT SAVINOS BANiK The Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders of this Bank will lie held ai its Head Office, St. James Street, on Monxday, the Eleveixti day of February next, a: 12 o'dloc noon, for the reception of the Anniial Reports andi Staternents, and the EI\u003c'ction of Directors. By order of thie Board. A. P. LESPERANCE, Manager. Montreal, janxzary gth, igî8. THE MEROHANTS BANK 0F CANADA QUARTERLY DIVIDEND Notice is hereby given that a dividezid cf Two andi orne- half Der cent. for the current oanarter- beinir at the rate of OONDEISBD ADYERTISBIFIN¶ \"Positions Wante '.\" Ua. Per ward: ail other condenard advertiuuee 4c. per word, Minirmum charge for anir condensed advertismente per insertion. Ali condensed advertiaeinenta must confo, ai to us style. Condensed advertisernents, on accoun t of the very low ra charged for the., are Payable-in advance: 50 Percent extraifvharg THI STORY SU 00188.-A finit to our office fouri nes-a fine agair which h. knew cari average oimiusio lie bias bult up a 1 business already wi to prepare for an the next few Year\u0026 with successful reo, next week. Oaly witli the blghest re! Manager Tor~onto E 20 Victoria streetý PUBLIC AC YOUNG FINANCIAL MÀ ithirty-three years of age, f0 talc. up a new line of h. had been prejudiced, rewards for the successfui. tir will lie over $s.ooo.e orne of cvr $3,00o.oo a yea e are enlargirxg or organiz s expansion cf business di Ive positions for two good ýis off er will b. open dori i of unquestioneti integrity il lie considered. W. A. P, iperial Lif~e Assurance Comi IT iq dp.,ir4aîic n rplinniîuC er, n !eary and salar 1FA BW order 28th Decemnler, 19z7. Volume",
         "THE XONETARY TIMES lontreal and Toronto Stock Transactions Stock F'rites fer Week muded Jan. 23flI. 1IIS4 On $\u0026Ioa. ontresi figures oUPPlied, ta TWi Moneiary Tiotea 1\u003ey aNlera Sunrntt \u0026 C. icrament St.. Montireal. Toronto quotations \"and interest.- Noarel Seas i_- Askod Bld Sale5 .....................c.. .... orpoi............rd T T M 'I I R1 S1 i i 1111estrra , Rends d - st Mâ t~ng a'be Ralwny, Ligbt And POMe, Riardan PAPe .,,.If Steel o nàdà Pfrst Domnin War [-An, Ih Second Dominimon 'Wr 1--~ . Third 1DoinnsUon %Var ton WlonnmeStt 103agwi., wayocam;.ch i . t Tomate mtock, hso I s Amercun Çynaml d fil,, . ~4 B. .. Landod...po Bol] Tclophonne... liral lan ,,,, ... taj : Canadien Cannera. v-. rf., Canada Landod a N4ational unilv - prof h Canladian P cCc Halw.a',,, 5 II Canaéda Pernmanent ,.,, Cit\u003e'Dafry,,, .,,,, Sq Ciyb iyprof. iM COnOiulèdia ,'on , coin. consunMereOasq.,,, Crow'x Niiet pais ...ci Do- inlim Ca nn ers,* DominioIron ..., ... Dominion Steol C.niaany 4 Duluth SUP ......,, Ilami;ton Paovdet rof.. HOuron \u0026Une,,., Lettne .. Lal Rose, I ma K nlyIBr mc.. . ont ,, ... . Nn-, Uu*O ee .,80 .a .... romm Spninfl.ki I.. etl C- ... udCnd .....",
         "TRE X#0NETARY TIMES BUILDING PERMITS COMPARED RETURNS FOR THIRTY.PIVB CITIBS. DBPARTMENT Nov. 1917 coomanred October November November w Nov. 1916 OF LABOUR 1917 1917 1916 Increas.\u002b Decrease- PIOURBS Amount PerCent. CITIBS Nova Sori....... Halifax . .. - ...... Sydney ......... New BRUNSWIcI.... Moncton ....-.... . St.John....... Maisonneuve..... Montreal........ Quebec... . . . -* Sherbrooke..... Thre. Rivera. Westmount Brantford....... Fort Willian ..... Guelph ...... ... Hamilton..... Kingston..-.* Kitchener ......* London..... Ottawa....... Peterborough Port Arthur Stratford. . St. Catharines... St. Thomas...... Toronto-.. .. .. Windsor .... MANITOBA .... . Brandon...... Winnipeg......... 8assa'reniswan ... Moose Jaw. ...... Saskatoon.... A\u0026LRrTA.. .. .. Calgary ......... Bdmonton .... .... Batsrrie COLUMBIA.. New Westminst'r Vancouver....... Victoria..... ..... T t. , 101.903 55,835 46.068 6100 475.233 88.500 227.08 77.875 3.500 75,700 5. 125 2.248.786 , 21.965 8.00 197.491; 18,132 15.278 143 460 93.62% 817.875 4.529 38.20 2.820 788,225 9,450 74,010 2.580 72.500 84.925 4.50 42.800 37.475 212.5O 132.000 80.500 244.725 4 00 23.975 10.150 $ 81.373 35.1H 46.165 18.405 1.00 784,170 .200 219.35m 495.945 53.400 12.770 1.0 971.142 27,346 11.100 6.515 153.460 4,247 11.765 85.010 104.200 7. 25 5.982 8.060 56,448 2.400 418.019 71.405 49.300 2.700 46.600 10.20 35.90 18.240 62,100 83.700 27,700 56.000 4345 4.50 35.075 3,720 121.185 99.4858 21.700 19.800 15,000 1.842.705 783.875 1,450 127,100 35,200 1.624.693 9,945 4,22M 178.92 10.0\u00263 7,710 64.850 150.575 3.040 3.454 6,485 54.470 10.80' 948,026 170.00 200,00 18.500 193.400 15.50 6.050 4.720 4.810 72.700 39.400 34.300 119.2m 4,725 100.695 28.75 0 ,l m' li al 01 .. s -39.812 -04.277 \u002b 24,465 \u002b 7.108 \u002b 18.60 6.500 -1.058.588 - 14.850 - 248,17. -287.90 \u002b 37.90 -114,30 -3,700 \u002b17,401 \u002b8975 \u002b6.515 - 25.460 \u002b 4,05 \u002b 20.100 - 46.758 \u002b 2,198 \u002b 2,478 - 425 \u002b 1.978 - 8,40 -5830007 -98.848 - 160.60 - 18.800 -146,800 1-93.710 \u002b 27,900 \u002b 8,520 \u002b 57.290 \u002b11.010 - 10,700 \u002b21.700 -85.950 - 175 -65,620 -10.850 - 32.85 - 64.61 \u002b 112.74 \u002b 35.87 \u002b28,.40 48,88 -57.44 -W2.28a - 74.66 -36.73 \u002b245.63 -89.95 - 9M.74 -40.28 \u002b174.97 \u002b 162.72 \u002b - 14.23 -57.75 \u002b 32.59 \u002b 31 09 - 30.90 \u002b 30.34 \u002b 71.74 - 8.55 \u002b 3.63 -77.90 - 58.01 -76.51 8.81 - 78,96 \u002b601.48 \u002b461.16 \u002b180.51 \u002b1191.06 \u002b15.18 -27.86 \u002b 84.18 INDEX NUMBERS OF COMMODIT .X Innx lNumam (DEPARTA9BNT OF LABOUR E 3 FIOURES) *Nov Oct. 9 1917 191 1. GRAINS AND Foopams: Grains. Ontario....................... \" Western............ ........ Fodder.......................... All ................... Il. ANMAL@ AND MEAT: Cattle and beef...................... Hogs and hog products ........ ...... Sheep and mutton .... ....... Poultry................. ........... A 1 .... .. ... .... ..... .... ......... 11l. DAinv PRODucTs....... ... ............. IV. Ps\" :................................ Prepared ish ....................... Presh Bah.... ..... ........... ........... A il .. ............... ... ........ ... ... . 909..4 302.8 204.0 288.4 289.7 336.6 26d.1 305.8 31,4.3 245.8 241.6 %L7.1 28.8 25t.0 I28,8 345.8 217.8 2U8.5 2M7.2 183.9 M58.9 197.6 22t.4 344.4 292.5 î81.0 290.0 33.8 181.0 211. 298.2 246.2 28t.1 230.3 28a.0 MONEY MARKETS Mesîrs. Glazebrook and Cronya, exchange and brokers, Toronto, report the following exchange rates t Montary T imes :-- Buyers. Sellers. Co N.Y fuds.......,..31-32 Pm r % Pm . Mont. funds ............ par par 3 Sterling- Demand ..... . 4.79.80 $4.80.1o .I Cable transfers ..... $4.81 $4.81.25 *4J Rate in New York fur sterling demand, $4.75,. LBank of England rate. 5 per cent. TED SECURITIES 1 Bid 1Ask . -- idr ant.hutt PL Volume 6o",
         "uary 25, 1918. THIC MORETARY TIK2$ 43 ~heFa tstRo tetoResuits secured duriî th pas car 'he Fa test R ute tore-affirm th1e positi on o the Sun ,f ~ Pr duc ionof Canada as the leading lire assurance Big rodu tionorganizatiofl of the Dominion. via the Trainîng, the Service and the Co- Il Icads ail Canadian Companies ln operfiongîvn thoug Ourownannual New Business, Total Business FREE SALES COURSE. in Force, Assets, Surplus Earnings, PROSPECT BUREAU, Net Surplus, Premîugn Income, Total BULLETIN SERVICE, Ificome adPaymnents o oicy- ADVERTISING andan r ALL ROUND SUPPORT holders. U Travel without errense, Fair-dealing and progressive busi- OUAre better equipped for the journey, nesrehd r 11 onain o Sure of getting there, with the ns nfid r h onain o the Company's phenomenal growth, ANADA LIFE SU%-s ASSURANCE CO. R~M No(À At ,me Office -Toronto HA BRIISHANERICA ASSURAN4CE COMPIANY ALWAYS A PLACE flt AI.«A AU\u0026otRLN AUI N\u0026Rnl R DEPENDABLE AGENTS W. .BOK esetW.0 IILtVcPr.anGr.M. 'hose wbo a not only write applications but AM eliver plceadare energetic in their meh 1-e »WWAU .s di. Go od ostin are ready for sucb men. [on Mutual Life Insurance Co. Portland, Man IR L. BATBS, PumanT JIJ B. MORIN. BU»m BRITrISII CROWN ASSURANE Dr Mgmeis in the. western Dtvisan, Prvince ofQC.gU« gio CAEONA IN0WALNC COMPANY J. t0.S SORTWIC. Moas L COF EE \u0026 Cc.Tihe NotIern Assurance Company, Ltd. Ie O F E \u0026 O f Londn, K ng, GRAIN MIERCHANTS Accu@uML\u0026TUD FUNDe 1916 ...........9 3ePOOO FLYN Etalined 84 \"ad e Ta\" etwlI Inctudiug Pald ?' Capital Anoun, $1,480.0M0O _______________________________ . \u0026, MODSBRLY, Managerf",
         "THE MONETARY *TOTAL TRADE OF CANADA BY MONTHS. IMPORTS FOR CONSUMPTION OF MERCJANDISB. Months A pril. . . . .. .. . .. .. ... M ay . ..... ... ..... .... June.. July. August . September........ October .......... November.............. December January.. Pebruary.. March . .... .... Totals. Piscal Years.. 1914-15 36,037.718 45,076.939 45.750,793 42,964,467 44,90,603 36,567,572 35,115,730 31,552,190 30,892.913 30,00.157 35.912,910 40,411,384 455,71,371 1915-160 28,391,040 34,890,08 35,324,729 86,557,691 40,800.865 38,028,1560 39.515,144 45,217,559 50,170,45 51,654,98 62,034,05 1916-17 50,147.830 09,697,812 66,399,538 83,62,687 72.331,114 68,766,262 71.196,252 72.579,445 67.00,534 72,821,074 68,080,469 102,335,888 7,788,881 345,330,909 1917-18 86,807,809 107,596,379 97,515,067 90,181,595 91,9.1,019 . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . .. EXPORTS OF CANADIAN MERCHANDISE. Monthn 1914-15 1915.16 g g Apr17,7071 28,691,889 May...90,0053 42,080.486 June... 2 90.20 4'ZW,846 July .. .. ... .......... 41 ,7,648 45.5 0,038 Augut........,....... 31.510.782 41,094,154 Septemnber . . . .. .. ..... -. 31,796,613 4e, 129.735 October ...... .. ....... 45,8M-.422 80,08,582 November............. 42,872,109 92.91,916 December............. 7198,80M 92,171,402 January..... . 28,56,596 83.731,184 February........... 28,881.277 87,91,168 March........... 45,118.92 88.414,2M Totals, Piscal Years, 409,418,856 741,610,68 1916-17 1917-18 s s 55,092,085 65.145,449 94,65,188 149,067,286 95.65.862 116,285.841 104,904,270 177,3M6.148 96.091,289 146,87,5W 90.285.181 ....... 85,812 175 ........... 109,558,950.- 130,037,174 ..- 99,106.10 FA-224. ... . . . . . EXPORTS OF PORBIGN Monthe 1914-15 1915.16 TRADE OF CANADA WITH UNITED KINGD BY MONT HS-Continued. EXPORTS OF CANADIAN MERCHANDISB TO UNITBD KI Months April .. . . . . . ,M ay... -.. . .. . . . June... July Agust. September . October. November. December. .. January. ebruary . March.. Totals, Fiscal Years... EXPORTS OF F Months 1914-15 S 7.000,680 12,154,115 8,68,470 18,028,78 12,543,23 12752,854 24,745,143 22,150,800 17,971,518 12,86,992 14,301.759 28.698,202 186,668,554 1915-16 s 18,192,655 24,643,519 21,783,968 22,739.381 17.925.332 22.189,301 45,765.452 59,584,272 66,405.670 59.236.993 34,445,583 58,940,273 451,852,399 1916-17 MBRCHANDISB TO UNITED l 1916-17 S 1* Total, Apr . . . . . ..-. M aye .. . .... . Jun . . .. . ..e..... July, ,.. . ... . August ...... ... . Septemnber .... October .... November.. December ....... January. .\u003e... ... . Pebruary.... mlarch ....... .. . . Totals, Piscal Years. TRADE 0P S FOR CON ....... ..... . 507,73,361 1845,330,90 ..... ....",
         "THE KONETARy TIXES TRADE 0F CANADA WITH UINITED STATES BV M\u0026ONTHS-Contittuedfrani Page 44. \u003eORTS OF FOREIGN MERCHANDiSE1,1 TO U NITE D STATES. Months 1914-15 .......... 704,9W281 ....... 799669 ... ... ...ý 1 1,W8 ,373 )er ... ..........1.032,072 - ... .... .... 1,05-Z,813 er............. 65.917 et.............. 690,24 1,974,978 Fiscal Yeart.. 13,\u002622,C640 1915-16 2,5'23,936 ff04,121 56,292 1,W,07125 4,562,014 1.181,W62 1 li0rz2 7.Li,0m1 842,645 510,887 702:873 734,376 15,562,774 1916-17 496.847 694,465 706,075 739,03M 177.307 848.179 384862 1. 123.1 W2 8*63,44Ç F7 J)E 0F CANADA WITH OTHER C0UNTRIE BY MONTHS. FOR CONSUMPTION OF MPRCHANDISE PROM OTHER1 COIJNTRIFS. ith J 914-15 1915- 16 1911-17 ....... .130,154 3.89.8 49140723 ...... 7,91,819 4,410,491 7:18942 ...... 6:935:w0 4:2 18.0 6,47S ,1M 7,0..... -9 480152 58,679 ...... :2 09,88M 6.286.008 6,197.\u0026 4. 138,121 5,189.027 6,01.17 ........ 4.410.,W 8,448,101 619,138 .... ... 4,291,140 5.439,420 5.619.7m0 4.71 1,ff8 4,500.85 5,W9,945 5.101,494 8,808,0396 8.0,14 5,M30,267 5,7877 6.372,M8 S.3.1298 5.007,9M8 7.484,081 scal Yeara. 60.6,M.ff87 59.984.812 740,M CANADIAN MERCHAN 1914-15 1917-18 YIELDS ON INVES'TMEýNTIS IN STOCKS AND) BONDS The. foIlowinit taM.. o invstment yIc.,I (if stck and boeinda ias tern coin piledfor Th, Monetar Tia... by Msaa.8oMir. A Jil n,.Mma Toro toStok Pichage.103 leày Str.st T.r4.ntio 1917-18 s Preferrod-, Canada Cernant Canada tltama,l»o Canad.An L4\u003ecomotive Mlacliay Co)nwanlaa Mtaele Lýa Mtilinx Pentnanft Steel or Canada liCFnhn 2 ~and lachinu Canada Cn nt ,, Caiiadian LÀ]Ooive Canadlian Gentrai EIoctric __ onaumer'aa - ,s CAnadian Pacific Riw cOnmoIldaand Smritirin __Domiionlaa Pundry s« Ilackay Conipan.es Domino Seel CorporatIon SSteel C0. of Caad Toono mlmway Ton cigy \"an Div. 1\u003cîtc 7 7 7 4 7 s 7 8 4 O 6 8 r; 10 Canada Bread anadau Cren... Canada 1408monshps Câmadia. Locomoive *Third %Var Loan. *%\u003etl ontock bom%. lx ut u bout 80) 777 M0 6.0 119 714 76 71N 81 108 90 7.30 88 .26 184 7 Saskatchewan'\u0026 Vital Statistics, 1917 M ea*tb e .... .. .. . ... a.. .. Dimbu oatIIow m Ifanti paath,.,,,,.,, i~ Riati: pali1,eu Mail (0 .00111014 .01 3,4 .7 4 .00 .004 01 .0 02 327 17 2 17 Rate Pro, vinc. cf stock exchaolgc, securities by the Bank- London shows a declbze of £t58,oooooo ,ir lisi of ý97 teprese1tative securities, as 49,000.000 inl 1916. mnaia satemesrt of \u003che Crown Reserve bareholder-, thi% week showý,ed an lucrease front *19)1.822' tO 26,1 After payiiig 1rer expenses, including development, de.- iou81ti111 t thejrofits were 8, in ii6 ithbalnceof 770,533 carried the profit and loss accounit shws a total after paying bond office superintendence, il prospec-ting and exploration. totalling us Was $78 1,765, the surplus for 19r6 beig 25,,191e. j- \u003e-.-----.-.--",
         "THE MONETARY TIMlES Vlm . NEW INCORPORATIONS British Controlled Oili4.Ids, Llmited, of Montreal, Has Large Authorized Capital The largest companies incorporated during the past weelc were: Waneta Power Company, Limited, Nelson, B.C., $i,- 500,000; Met, s Chemical, Linlited, Welland, Ontario, $i,- 000,000; the W\\1ood Molybde-nite Company, Limited, Ottawa, Ontario, *î,oo;PintD ColIlieriesq, Limited, Winnipeg, Man., *1(,0,000;: Bri.tish Contr9lled Oilfields;, Limited, Mont- real, Que.,- ooo Engzineering and Machine Works of Canada, Limitecd, St. ChaieOntario, $ro00,o0o. The following is a partial list of charters gran-ted during the past week in Canada. The head office of the company is sîtuatedl in the towvn or city mentioned at the beginning of each Parâgraph. The amou)Lnt notcd( is the- authorized capital, .and the pers;onsý named are provisional directors: Prince Rupert, BO,-Skeena Club), Limited, 810,o00, Nlsonc, DO.- waneta Power Companiy, Limited, $1,5oo,- 000. Winnipeg, Mn-Pinj«) Çollicrie¶. .ilnitedl, $1.0,0O0; H. HrtubseF. Hlurtubise, T. F. Trihey, Welland, Ont.-MvtaNý Chemnical, Limited,. $1,000,000; A. W. Hfolinested, W. J. Cluif, W. Skelly. Windsor, Ont.-~nvr Car Agencv, Limnited, $40,000; J.M. Duck, W. D). McGregzor, J. F. Duncan. OttRwa, Ont.-The oo Molybdenite Comnpany, Limited, $1,000,000; 0. E. Woýod, A. MrLean, G. D,. Kelly-. Three Rivera, Que. La Compagnie J. H. Giroux, Lim- itée, *49,5oo, J. Il. Giroux, A. Allaire., C. I. Giroux. Niagara Faits, Ont. -Auto Road Constructio11 Company, Liîmlted. $6\u003c\u003e,ooo: W. Hf. Johnston, A. H. Rose, R. Miller. Village of leeton, Ont.-Kline Fanning Mill Company, Limited, *40\u003e,000; E. R, Munnings, L.. Munnings, F,J Hubert, 81. Cath.arines, Ont. ~Engzineering and Machine Works of Canada, LIil, 10000 . R. Fra-er, F. S. Rugg, Chartes Migznauit. Villa of Outton, Ont.-Tbe Dunwich and t)utton Tele. phione Companv, Limited, $6,noo; W. Il. McAlisterr, J. R. Cime-ron, D). March, HebortylIte 8taitlon, QUO.--Cornpgnie, f)'Aýqueduc Hebert. ville- Saint-B ru no, *4o.,000; H., Lippe, J. A. Roy, L, Bernier. Louis Beaubien, Limitt4, *14o,000; L. Beaubien, J. J, Beau-. bien, E. Moisan. Qebe., Que.-Louis Beaubien, Linmitée, 4,0;J.. Beaubien, E. Moisan, G. jalber-t. Legare Autorm4biIe and SuPply GompanY, Limited, $So00.000; L. L. Legare, J. Frader, P. C. Falardeau. Montreal, Que.-The Page Wire Fence Company of C ada, Limited, *2so,ooo; A. R. Pinsoil, R. Brodeur, A. Chý Înard. British Controlled Oilfields, Limited, $12,50o,0x0, W. MaucDouigall, L. Macfarlaxie, W. B. Scott. Laboratc Nadîeau. Limitée, *,30,000, T. St. Arnaud, H. Nadeau, P. Nadeau, Vancouver, B..-U.nitel Mail-Order Stores, Limit $îo,ooo. Maquinna Packing Company, Lîmited, $S00,0 Bianfield, Gunther and Black, Limited. $Io,ooco. McAlli., Spring Company, Limited, $25,ooo. Empire Brewing Cc pany. Limited, *îo,ooo. t). E. Brown's Travel Bureau, Liri vd, *25,000. McTavish Fisheries, Limited, $25,ooo. Ei. Macdonald, Limited, $i0,ooo. Allan and McKelvie Eng eering Company, Limited, *so,coo. National Supplies. Liix ed, $15,000o. Colonial Shipping Company, Lim'ited, $40,o, G, . TLýozgng Company, Liniited, 8îo,ooo. Blue Lî; Cons;olidatvd Company, Limitedi (nion personal liabilit, $1,000,000. Toronto, Ont.-Green's Econýomizer, Limited, *so.oc WV. Gilchrist, A. Hand, J. Stewart, C. J. Rodley, Limiti $50.000; W. J. Bodley, W. E. Steel, H. »F. Hall. Maie\" Electric Supplies, Lîmîted, *îsoooo; J. H. Greenberg, O'Brien, E. L. Dewev. College Street Cartage and Stora Conmpainy, Limnited, $4o,ooo; W. Gilchrist, J. Stewart, Lawr. Golden Gate Mining Company, Limited (no persor liability), $40-0oo: L. J. P.ashler, -E. Barry, L. Sleeth, Coi for Manufacturing Company,' Limited, *40,000; J. W. Y~ Fa2dden, C. B. Nasînith, F. E. Earl. Molvhdenum AlIo-, Limited (no personal liabilitv), *Soo,ooo; G. 1. Quibeil, Rathbun, W,' R, Allelv. The Muir Cap Conany, Limite *40,000O; G. C. Loveys., G. E. Atwood, W. M. Smith. ' Perfection Children'e Cloak Company, Limnited, $40,000; I Frankfort, S, Rogers, A. G. Keith. DOMINION BANIK Showing total asse strong features, the Do. year is a very satisfact 000,000 in assets durinj deposits and not circula time exceeded $1,000,00 bein.g $1,087,477, as 19 increase cf *11,559. T to 7.73 per cent. on th funds, as coniprised in 1016 being 6.87, The r ner cent- in Tn, ind \u003ef $1( _19,436,00o and -nany înlc1's statement for t] llent. An increase o ris due largely to g 1017 the profits for t] tai net earnings for' t]: 5Q,o65 i iri116, This for the Past year werd the sharebholdersy il a]iand reserve. the r trnings to capital w,\u003c cent. in 1916. An a: tatement reveals a vei PRELIMINARY ST ............................ ( ..4-........... . ... ........ .......\u003e................ ......... ........... ........... .......... Volume 60.",
         "1813' 25, 1918. THE XOIKITAIy TIX(ES Lesurmace Company aisnoe organisation *- 6.000.800.00 FINE. uxrLmoes, INLANSM NAIRNE INUREANCtE BOARD OF DIRECTORS: 1 N AIRD Z. A. LASH. K.C.. LL.I). 1 ICKRRDIKB. M.P. W. B. MEIKE. Vice-Presidett ROCK, President 0.0 A. MORROW )COOPER (London. Bag. LiOUT..COeL. vIEu Il.. FREDERIC )x NICHOLLS OkNNA BRio.-.Oau. Sist HENRY PELLAT?, C V.O. 10 S Kl'. K.C.. LL.D 0. . A. ROBER? \u003cMontreal» e. R. WOOD. E11d 91»i TOU*NTO, On. ROCK. W. B. MEIKLB. C. C. POSTER. lent Vice-Preuldent and Cernerai Manager Seoeetarw itish Northwestern Fire Irisurance Company Office ... WINNIPEG, Cao. -ibed Capital $594,400 Capital Paid-up S242,000) Secity for Policyboldoer $677,00 IDWARD BROWN,. PIOBIdeUt H. B, HALL, Vio..Prldma P. IL POSTER, Managing Pirector 3DOMINION OF CANADA RANTEB \u0026 ACCIDENT INS. CO. ont Iauraaos Sickn.ma Inmuanc Plate loie. lnmmaaoe ary Insuranoe Automile. immuLranct Ouaeante. Bend\u0026 \u003etg.eg and stroncest Canadien Accident isura.. Company U*uiat.BI WinamIpeg 4cUSS47 Vamoe rloo Nutual Pire Insurance Company SHRTAUSIIB IN ]OU Head 0150., WatvOP100 Dm. sets Siat Docember, 1915 .................0,140 in force in Western Ontario, over ........* 30,E\u003eLo 8 D)IESEL. Preildnt. ALLAZ4 àQWMAN, VicePeiee, HU H. Manager. BYRON4 B. BECIITEL. inpct No'U-Went Ru'ftnoh .... TIIOS. BRUCE. Branch manager MARTIN N. NERRV, Gemaal Agent Agencesa througbout ihe Domninien SUN FIRE MUNDMSD A.1), 17 THE OLDEST INSURANCE CCO, 1N THE WORLD \"amla Bomacs - Toronto LYMANI ROU?, Manager The LONDON ASSURANCE Hu\"m OiS... C\u0026m Dranch. MONTREAL 1rfl\"a xed Iiim. u ButbUi A.D. IN. PIRE 3181(5 Ao.etei at Cu ratbe Togât. Agets .. . B. 04vo It.eruaa. 19 Wellington St. \"eti VInnipg TORONTO m Fidelity FreUnderwriters 0Wr NEW YQHRK Ielet a.u.i haïr ky t ihe A I.bral b'fl urmUrU\u003c t'mpan .7ad i a hy Chf \u003cUmrnaOara Iupauiy. CQMBINBI) ASSETS EXCEPRD FIFTY THREE MILLION DOLLARS \"The Beut on the Continent\" IIFM\u003e OFFICE FO'R CANA DA AN 1)NEWVFOUNIQLANI-) 175S\u003c. John Sirr., W. B- BALDNIN ONTREA R\u003eIOWAT. Mlarager MOTEL Aatt Manager ATLAS Aeauranc, Comupany LimIted Or ILOrIDOt4, NMGLAM» Tb* Comp mene busines in te~ IIINUOr QM s lu. At i t \u003cdhe followtaine ashow lIt record:j- £11.A..ustiom of Inm.n Paudé KtINO GOOG IV. - ou ne.0 - SU KING WILLIAM IV. ... 11 uymh . I. QLIRO VICTORIA ., m.us . 4.675.410 and et ae? DECRNUER 1811 ... 118k8 ,,, .ILI .*1S la addition th v Com anyha S4,keatbud Cep4taie l e\" N ier. liba Dollrs (f whch S.M.00 a aid up) 1usd Offie for Caaada,. 200 St J\u0026MU St. MONTIXAL MATTHEW C. HINSHAW, Branch manaer UNION ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED (FIRE INSURANCE SINCE AA). 1714) Canada Branch .... Nontm.al T. L. MORRISKY. Reimiderit Manager onde \" 1",
         "THE XGIETAEY TIMES Vlm MEROIIANTS FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY A very satisfacto.ry report was presented by the directors of the Merchants Fire Insurance Company at their recexit annual meeting in Toronto. Not only was the premîum in-. come materially increased but after providing for ail pro- vincial and Federal taxes, the net earnings were the largest ini the cornpany's history. The net profit on the year's oper- ations was $80,498. A dividend of te per cent. on the paid- in capital stock of thec company was declared and the bal- ance carried ta the credit of profit and loas account. The ex- Pense ratio for 1917 was 3,3.9)3 per cent., as compared with 33.97 PeU cent in the previous year. The fire boss ratio was 39.oi per cent., and the profit, 27.04 Per cent. Of the net premiwn incarne. Thie amnount at risk is substanitial and now stands at $4,670,297. Thie number of policies in force is 44,186, an increase of 2,92o. Thie average risk per policy is $1,124-.10. Thie premium incc\u003eme, interest, receipts, building rentais, commission on re-insurance and endorsement fees were te- spectively $316,iro, *15,306, $4,o45, $o65 and $5,making a total incorne of $336,623. lI presenting tie \u003cirectors' report, Mr. RalpRi E, Gibson, president, painted eut that thie fund deposited with the On- tario insurance department for the security of pobicyholders is * îe6,5coo. In addition to being greatly in excess of statu- tory requirements, this is thie larges,1 macle by any Canadian fire insurance company. Thie getieral manager of thie corn- pany is fMr. J. Il. C, Durham, and Mr. Gibson intimaited tRiat thie sound and healthy condition of the company's affairs was due largeby te the efflciency of the management. Mr. Durham is a cautious underwrlter and ha, carefully selected the company's business. The resubts cf this policy are te- flected lin the fimaniai statement. DECEMBER BANK STATEMINT Thie following atateinent shows thie principal items of thie December bank report, with. tRe changes which occurred dur- ing the moxth.- serve fund ... .... dte circulation ... !mand deposits ...... dtice deposîts ..... ,tal deposits in Canada. posits outside Canada. trrent coin............ imixiion notesg........... posits, central gold reserve Illans in Canada ... l boans outslde Canada .. irrent boans lin Canada .. irrent loans outside Canada ities . . . . . .. 3....... ..... ..... Dec., 1917, *114,100,693 192.023,824 5e6,441,871 W95.978,013 1,592,41(),884 174,779-104 82,032,863 167,478-560 97,270,000 71,77().020 134483,482 2,081,733,392 2,3 231,163,7 81 Changes during Dec, 191I7. \u002b 57,572,509 - 12,679,861 \u002b 44,892,648 \u002b 6,15o,0oo - 399,325 - 5,349,070 - 10,440,416 \u002b 15,626,574 \u002b 3,632,162 \u002b 2,892,7c)6 * UARANTEE COMPANY 0F NORTH AMERIC) Founded by Mr. Edward Rawlings, in 1872, thie pi\u003c of tRie business on this continent, the Guarantee Comp\u003ea: North America lias achieved splendid success in its u~ writing operations. It has an enviable reputatian in thi surance world. Net only is it favorably knawn becauý its sound business principles and practice; its staunch tian and a polis\u003e' combining proper caution and enterl have placed it in thie front tank of our fimanciai an~d u writing institutions. Thie excellent examples set by thie pany's ifounder have been carried on year hy year by suc ing managements, To-day at thie ýhead cf thie corporatc president and managing director is Mr. Henry' E. Rawl whose success in his important sphere has beexi notable. Rawlings \u003ehas carried on tRie affaira cf thie Guarantee pany of North America in1 a creditable way. He is supp, b\u003e' an exceptionally influential and active directorate. In senting thie directors' report, at thie annual meeting this i Mr. Rawlings pointed eut that last year, as lin previous y the compan\u003e' had adhered te its canservative policy methods in thie underwriting of oui\u003e' fldelity bocnds and classes of preferred suret\u003e' bonds. The premiums revenue last year was the larýgest ii campany's Ristory. Thie ratio of claims, paid and pen, was decreaSed, compared with the average of previaus y Thie United States Guarantee Company' of New Yor which thie cornpanyv cwns two-thirds of thie capital stock, with which its reinsurance arrangements have been mut satiafactor\u003e' and profitable, after adjusting its valuatioi securities on a basis consistent with present values prový tor ail liabilities anid payment o\u003ef a dividend of io pet on its cauital stock of *R2rO-flln- 1ýhnWý in inrrPnQA ef a41M1114ilut$ i iMÇ of the State of N his findings, con underwriting, fali ment cf adjusted An examinat maintenance of Thie company's i clients have ever\u003e surance ce in accordî Ys policy i irs and prc statement I OROP DATA Thie statement in detail andj thie usuai analysis will Rie printed in these columns next week, AS a first step toward building uxp lin the waste lands of thie province a great sheep and cattie rancliing industty tRie Ontario government is t, establish a flve-thousand-acre ranch, probab\u003e' in thie Part\u003e' Sound district, Thie plans which are now receivinig thie consideration cf thie experts of tRie department of a-griculture will Rie put into aperation duiring thie coing summer, when thie ranch will Rie located, buildings çtected, etc., and arrangements made for pntti-ng stock on thie land the followlng spting. In Ris reinarks te shareholders on thie annual report of thie 111 r1 ýAser o Volume",
         "THE XONETART TIXES M,Lu N D0%N GUARANTEE AND ACCIDENTr COY. SLImINUd Hsadl Ofis for emae\", TORONTO Personal Aeeident 81*,..,s Pldelity ouatanite. Court Bonda Internal Revenue Tea... mmd Automoile ,FIRE INSURANCE LI Accident Slckness ,ers' Liabillty Automobile ex's Compensation Fidelity Guarante and Fire Insurance PolkA.,s .W. I. WOODLÂND neral Manager for Canada and Newfoundil.d uiIding, JOHN JENKINS, Te~mleBl ,EAL Fir. Mfanager TOR M 1 Here is Your Opportunity The. su:ce.,. wtiicb ha% mtetiid 11w o1erai 'on% of (lit- North Amterican Lif. througbott o i ' hii%-r basý madr toiîn witb the. Comiipaiiy jiaiculatr1y nîi. The. yrar 19]NS promiaea- to bc higgrr and bettier thani au), bertof )rrSm goyupnný f~ vou ani oppol'rîuiîy at tii lime\u003e corresnpond wviîh E. Jý AVY Suiiervi%,ý o. Agrncirs. North American Lite Assurance Co. \" S010 AS THE C'ONTINENT- Gjuardian Assurance Company Assets exceed Thirty-Fiv. Million Dollars H.ad Off b. for Cantada, Guardlan Ildg.. tL M. LAMSE*T. Mariater. W.EHA SmetatMrnl. ARMSTRONG \u0026 DSWIT, Genoral Agents. 6 Wellington Street East - Toronto LIFE UNSURANCE do.. for à man wliat h. cannot dg, for himaelf-protects dependent orne* eaine wanl %fier lie in gene. TlFere inn a ube titut. for à Lifr Inguranc. Policy. Tihe Policies of The Great West Lii. bear the. closent scrutin The. more caref ully tii.7 arrexa.mined. the. more dle. y apparent in their ,ibrahty end value. Aak for rates at your owII *ge. The Great-West Lits Assurance Co. ME^AO rroom * WINN4IPEG Aàk iot an 1916 Deek Caleader--hee on requnet. Merchants Casualty Co.' n.ât office: Winipg, MAU,. 'Me tron ur«rsi oomsain aada. Opsqsatlau uner tbm supevison o tm Doemo and Provincil lmuur.aema Devartmete. Emrcn tbe emifre Dominion ofCnaa SALESMIBN NOTIE Dur accmet \u0026d hmeai ev plc tth. mnt liber%[ protection es. otfered for a orermIwn of 10 *Upoemortb. Cavers over ,WO difa rent digeaite. Pyfo ieYemrt Accident IsiabilltY and Pays for Accoietael ea.Qurnie Operstionq. Ueath of the. si±iary end Chlten of the . lnswed. Smod qpmmil ter MIve Agent\u0026 utern Hed Off...t Adutaide St .. oot Houne ,.ms BlcricFtlwsCames",
         "THE MONETARY TIMES A Pension for Life for Yourself and Wife Under a Life Rate Badowmnat PolIey of the London Life Insurance Co. POLICIBS \"OOOD AS GOLD.\" FOR INFORMATION RE AGENCY OPENINGS Address H. A. KENTY, Superintencent of Ageniees. Continental Life Insurance Co., Toronto | Orders for the new issue of H. M. P. Bekardt'a Manual of Canadian Banking \u003e, Ont. Fire neuranse Company, .mited. et PARIS, FRANCI Capital f tlWcunbeorib.d.15% pal4 up........ - 2,000MSW.0 Pire Re Peru Ptmd ...................... Avallable Balance train Profit and Loa sAccotant 111.52146 Total Lees paid toa et Deceber. 1916 . 10. 000.00 Net premiun incnome ln 1916 ............. 5.630.43 Canadian Branch. 17 St. John Street. Montreal: Manager for Cana MAURIoE PaaIa\u003enn. Toronto offe. 18 Wellington St. Bast J. H. EwanT, Chief Agent. Pirst British insurance Company established in Canada. A.D. 10 Phoenix Assurance Company, Limit fui RE 0f London, England Lii Pounded 1792 Total resources over.. . ..................... . .......s g0,ggg Pire tses a d ... .......... .......... .......... 425. Deposit with Paderai Oovariment and Inventtrnt ln Canada for security of Canadian poleiy holders only exceed...... 2.M Agents wanted in both branches. Apply to R. MAcD. PAT SON, Manag J. B. PATERSON, a 100 St. Francois Xavier Street, Nontreal. Qi Ail with profit policies affected prior to the 31snt December will r for a full year'a reversionary bonus at that date. \u003eANY Asuets Over Premium Incon Fire and I DALE \u0026 COMPA Coristine Building, BRANCHES: Halifax. Toros AGENTS' Western Life The Standard Life Assurance Co. of Edinburgh Established 1825. Head Office for Canada: MONTRBAL. Que. Invested Pund.......$ 60,500.000 investments under Can. De pted with Cana- adian Branch, over...I 1S,000.00 din aoe ient and Revenue, over......... ... 7.900.000 Oovernment TrWuit. Bonusi declared .....40,0,.000 eues, over.............. 7000.000 Claims paid ............ 151.000.000 D. M. McGOUN, Mgr. P. W. DORAN. Chief Agent. Ont. 1W Volhm",
         "january 25, 1918. T12 KOKETAIX TIXES CeraW granel Head offie, Me.er*I DIRECTORS M. Chevalier. Haq Taylor, LL.D. Manager. Assistant Manager ROYAL EXCHANGE POU'NIE» AD 1 Le@\u0026\" Pella exoe*d~e HKAI. OPPioa r0k CANADA ROYAL EXCHANGE BUILDING, MONTREAL l». B. P. L*o.o.. . Mnra S..grtu. F.. Mura J. . 100e. RaoQ, K c . W1prole£ a . A. Wiaios. Ria. Noia.. 4w Vlot EaummSn, J. A- Jussp, Manager Caqalty ID.pt AvaTuvourny Oan-1a MunaMre ain qu0laý uaropvoented dlstrkt, r. Ire ASSURANCE licud Offic*: Royal lixthang.. London CONFEL\u003eERATION LIFE ASSOCIATION leue LIBERAL POLIOY CONTRACTO ON ALL API\u003eKOVED PLANS. OvwîCEuRn AND» DIIsCCfiroms: Prealdent: . . MACDONALD. RSQ. VICE-PRKSUDENT AND\u003e CHIIAiMAN 0? TUA BOARD W. P. MATrNESS RSQ. Vie\" r.P.emn SIR1 EDMUNDO 81.81. P. Johnw Macoonald. Eaq. Lt.-Col. J. F. Elih. JSoseph Ifanderao. Rai Pelai lIowLand Eta4 Lt.CoI. A. B. G0oodrhaoe Lt.-Col, The. Mon. Prodoei Nicheflu Thot. J, Clark. Baq. Jolhn Piratfrook, fo. Gan. Supt. of Agemctes. Actuary, V. R1. SMITI. A.A\u003e..A.LA. J. TOWBR BYD Seoretary. J, A. MACDONALD. Me4lca 1 Director: ARTHUR JULRS .OHNSON, M.D., UU.C.U, (En.) HEAD OFFICE .. . TORONTO THE IuerWrtoi 1875 MERCANTILE FIRE INSU RANCE COMPANY \u0026il Ppll1. Ouarautosd by thie LanDu. AND £Aoote PlIusa Crpryou LIYuIF 001. TORONTO PABR EFQ. COMPANY, LTD. 111S Air ouIwAU, ONT. Menu futurera of Loft drked, Air drlod. Tub ala.d Bod. Loerend P. pr. in e FPlolabIn a apcialty, - A*il yeur gilslet fer *ample *u prie\u0026. Th\" CANADA NATIONAL FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY ii»D offlca: wDnuEG. EAU. SURPLUS TO POLICYHOLDER8, $1,976,156.08 A Cumaila csrnpauy Inlestlag Its Ftas In CRaIS\" Genl Pire Insuruace Bsinecss Transactci APPUICATIONS FOR AGE.NCIES INVITEI) Toronto. Ot., granc: U0 Ring SI. We*t, C. 9» Caselseea. Mer. ..,NORWICH UNION ~5oc ETYÎMITED PIRE 1149URANE AOW DT AND SISQUS £MPLOTERS LUABILTY PLT GLANE AUTOMOEILE [MEURAUCB HcA4 Orn Poe ND Nouwlh union BudiU4l \u0026Z-1 W.liUeassu et. DM TORON\"@",
         "Vol. 6o-No. 4 january 25, KO0N ET E- Dealers in \u003cWar Bonds of the Dominion of Canada E. K. Wood - Proýeut LAMNFrED. G. A. Moeow VhPtlt ei. 10 J. W= ~'l VIoeý.Ptul1901 W. S. Fi KBgm ocyHAD OFFICE. J. A. FmmS T 6 eNtSRET AS T..Ad~io As'gS.oegwry 26KNT REET ES A. F. Whit. AU ,Tw.mwoe IAMEiRicAN B I ENGEÂVI BÂNxx NOTES. ]RONDS. DREÂFTS. LETTERS OP :)RZflIT. CHEVXS. EcTC. FOR - .ý . A WrU vM MMM"
      ],
      "key" : "oocihm.8_06569_1856",
      "media" : [
         "text"
      ],
      "pkey" : "oocihm.8_06569",
      "source" : [
         "Library and Archives Canada."
      ],
      "contributor" : "oocihm",
      "location" : "http://eco.canadiana.ca/view/oocihm.8_06569_1856",
      "label" : "Volume 60 No. 4 (January 25, 1918)"
   },
   "request" : "http://eco.canadiana.ca/view/oocihm.8_06569_1856/1?r=0\u0026s=1\u0026fmt=json\u0026api_text=1"
}
{
   "doc" : {
      "media" : [
         "text"
      ],
      "key" : "oocihm.8_04117_577",
      "pkey" : "oocihm.8_04117",
      "contributor" : "oocihm",
      "source" : [
         "Bibliothèque et Archives Canada."
      ],
      "location" : "http://eco.canadiana.ca/view/oocihm.8_04117_577",
      "label" : "40e année, no 3 (nov. 1918)",
      "title" : [
         "L'enseignement primaire"
      ],
      "type" : "document",
      "note" : [
         "Mensuel (sauf juil.-août), déc. 1897-"
      ],
      "published" : [
         "Québec : [C.-J. Magnan, 1918]"
      ],
      "lang" : [
         "fra"
      ],
