      "identifier" : [
         "98447"
      ],
      "text" : [
         "Technical and Bibliographic Notes / The Institute has attempted to obtain the best original copy available for filming. Features of this copy which may be bibliographically unique, which may alter any of the images in the reproduction, or which may significantly change the usual method of filming are checked below. Notes techniques et bibliographiques L'institut a microfilmé le meilleur exemplaire qu'il lui a été possible de se procurer. Les détails de cet exem- plaire qui sont peut-être uniques du point de vue bibli- ographique, qui peuvent modifier une image reproduite, ou qui peuvent exiger une modification dans la métho- de normale de filmage sont indiqués ci-dessous. El El Coloured covers / Couverture de couleur D Covers damaged / Couverture endommagée D Covers restored and/or laminated I Couverture restaurée et/ou pelliculée El ri Cover title missing / Le titre de couverture manque Coloured maps / Cartes géographiques en couleur El Coloured ink (i.e. other than blue or black) / Encre de couleur (i.e. autre que bleue ou noire) Coloured plates and/or illustrations / Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur El Bound with other material / Relié avec d'autres documents E Only edition available / Seule édition disponible El Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion along interior margin / La reliure serrée peut causer de l'ombre ou de la distorsion le long de la marge intérieure. Blank leaves added during restorations may appear within the text. Whenever possible, these have been omitted from filming / Il se peut que certaines pages blanches ajoutées lors d'une restauration apparaissent dans le texte, mais, lorsque cela était possible, ces pages n'ont pas été filmées. E Additional comments / Commentaires supplémentaires: This item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below / Ce document est filmé au taux de réduction indiqué ci-dessous. Coloured pages I Pages de couleur Pages damaged I Pages endommagées D Pages restored and/or laminated / Pages restaurées et/ou pelliculées Pages discoloured, stained or foxed I Pages décolorées, tachetées ou piquées ril Pages detached / Pages détachées Showthrough / Transparence SQuality of print varies / Qualité inégale de l'impression El Includes supplementary material I Comprend du matériel supplémentaire El Pages wholly or partially obscured by errata slips, tissues, etc., have been refilmed to ensure the best possible image / Les pages totalement ou partiellement obscurcies par un feuillet d'errata, une pelure, etc., ont été filmées à nouveau de façon à obtenir la meilleure image possible. El Opposing pages with varying colouration or discolourations are filmed twice to ensure the best possible image / Les pages s'opposant ayant des colorations variables ou des décolorations sont filmées deux fois afin d'obtenir la meilleure image possible. lox 14x 18x 22x 26x 30x 12x 16x 20x 24x 28x 32x",
         "CHRONICLES OF CANADA Edited by George M. Wrong and H. H. Langton In thirty-two volumes 7 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR BY CHARLES W. COLBY Part Il The Rise of New France",
         "-1- ;5 e' ef",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR A Chronicle of Frontenac BY CHARLES W. COLBY TORONTO GLASGOW, BROOK \u0026 COMPANY 1915",
         "261896 Copyright in ali Countries subscribing to the Berne Convention",
         "CONTENTS Page I. CANADA IN 1672 I II. LOUIS DE BUADE, COMTE DE FRONTENAC. 17 III. FRONTENAC'S FIRST YEARS IN CANADA 33 IV. GOVERNOR, BISHOP, AND INTENDANT . 5p V. FRONTENAC'S PUBLIC POLICY . . 71 VI. THE LURID INTERVAL . .87 VII. THE GREAT STRUGGLE . . 113 VIII. FRONTENAC'S LAST DAYS . . . . 135 BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE . . 162 INDEX . 164",
         "ILLUSTRATIONS FRONTENAC ANSWERING PHIPS'S MES- SENGER, 1690 . . . . Frontispiece From a colour drawing by C. W. Jefferys. LADY FRONTENAC. . . . Facingpage 22 From a painting in the Versailles Gallery. JEAN BAPTISTE COLBERT . . ,, 26 From an engraving in the Château de Ramezay. ROBERT CAVELIER DE LA SALLE . . ,, 40 From an engraving by Waltner, Paris. FIGURE OF FRONTENAC . . ,, 80 From the Hébert Statue at Quebec. PIERRE LE MOYNE, SIEUR D'IBERVILLE ,, li8 From an engraving in the John Ross Robertson Collection, Toronto Public Library.",
         "CHAPTER I CANADA IN 1672 THE Canada to which Frontenac came in 1672 was no longer the infant colony it had been when Richelieu founded the Company of One Hundred Associates. Through the efforts of Louis XIV and Colbert it had assumed the form of an organized province.' Though its inhabitants numbered less than seven thousand, the institutions under which they lived could not have been more elaborate or precise. In short, the divine right of the king to rule over his people was proclaimed as loudly in the colony as in the motherland. It was inevitable that this should be so, for the whole course of French history since the thirteenth century had led up to the absolutism of Louis XIV. During the early ages of feudalism France had been distracted by the wars of her kings against rebellious nobles. The virtues and firmness of Louis IX 1 See The Great Intendant in this Series. F.G. A",
         "2 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR (1226-70) had turned the scale in favour of the crown. There were still to be many rebellions-the strife of Burgundians and Armagnacs in the fifteenth century, the Wars of the League in the sixteenth century, the cabal of the Fronde in the seventeenth century -but the great issue had been settled in the days of the good St Louis. When Raymond VII of Toulouse accepted the Peace of Lorris (1243) the government of Canada by Louis XIV already existed in the germ. That is to say, behind the policy of France in the New World may be seen an ancient process which had ended in untrammelled autocracy at Paris, This process as it affected Canada was not confined to the spirit of government. It is equally visible in the forms of colonial ad- ministration. During the Middle Ages the dukes and counts of France had been great territorial lords-levying their own \u0026rmies, coining their own money, holding power of life and death over their vassals. In that period Normandy, Brittany, Maine, Anjou, Toulouse, and many other districts, were subject to the king in name only. But, with the growth of royal power, the dukes and counts steadily lost their territorial independ-",
         "CANADA IN 1672 3 ence and fell at last to the condition of courtiers. Simultaneously the duchies or counties were changed into provinces, each with a noble for its governor-but a noble who was a courtier, holding his commission from the king and dependent upon the favour of the king. Side by side with the governor stood the intendant, even more a king's man than the governor himself. So jealously did the Bourbons guard their despotism that the crown would not place wide authority in the hands of any one representative. The gover- nor, as a noble and a soldier, knew. little or nothing of civil business. To watch over the finances and the prosperity of the pro- vince, an intendant was appointed. This official was always chosen from the middle class and owed his position, his advancement, his whole future, to the king. The governor might possess wealth, or family connections. The intendant had little save what came to him from his sovereign's favour. Gratitude and interest alike tended to make him a faith- ful servant. But, though the crown had destroyed the political power of the nobles, it left intact their social pre-eminence. The king was as supreme as a Christian ruler could be. Yet",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR by its very nature the monarchy could not exist without the nobles, from whose ranks the sovereign drew his attendants, friends, and lieutenants. Versailles without its cour- tiers would have been a desert. Even the Church was a stronghold of the aristocracy, for few became bishops or abbots who were not of gentle birth. The great aim of government, whether at home or in the colonies, was to maintain the supremacy of the crown. Hence all public action flowed from a royal command. The Bourbon theory required that kings should speak and that subjects should obey. One direct consequence of a system so uncom- promisingly despotic was the loss of all local initiative. Nothing in the faintest degree resembling the New England town-meeting ever existed in New France. Louis XIV objected to public gatherings of his people, even for the most innocent purposes. The sole limitation to the power of the king was the line of cleavage between Church and State. Religion required that the king should refrain from invading the sphere of the clergy, though controversy often waxed fierce as to where the secular ended and the spiritual began.",
         "CANADA IN 1672 5 When it became necessary to provide in- stitutions for Canada, the organization of the province in France at once suggested itself as a fit pattern. Canada, like Normandy, had the governor and the intendant for her chief officials, the seigneury for the groundwork of her society, and medieval coutumes for her laws. The governor represented the king's dignity and the force of his arms. He was a noble, titled or untitled. It was the business of the governor to wage war and of the intendant to levy taxes. But as an expedition could not be equipped without money, the governor looked to the intendant for funds, and the intendant might object that the plans of the governor were unduly extravagant. Worse still, the commissions under which both held office were often contradictory. More than three thousand miles separated Quebec from Versailles, and for many months governor and intendant quarrelled over issues which could only be settled by an appeal to the king. Meanwhile each was a spy as well as a check upon the other. In Canada this arrange- ment worked even more harmfully than in France, where the king could make himself felt without great loss of time.",
         "6 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Yet an able intendant could do much good. There are few finer episodes in the history of local government than the work of Turgot as intendant of the Limousin.' Canada also had her Talon, whose efforts had trans- formed the colony during the seven years which preceded Frontenac's arrival. The fatal weakness was scanty population. This Talon saw with perfect clearness, and he clamoured for immigrants till Colbert declared that he would not depopulate France to people Canada. Talon and Frontenac came into personal contact only during a few weeks, but the colony over which Frontenac ruled as governor had been created largely by the intelligence and toil of Talon as intendant.2 While the provincial system of France gave Canada two chief personages, a third came from the Church. In the annals of New France there is no more prominent figure than the bishop. François de Laval-de Mont- morency had been in the colony since 1659. 1 Anne Robert Jacques Turgot (1727-81), a statesman, thinker, and philanthropist of the first order. It was as inten- dant of Limoges that Turgot disclosed his great powers. He held his post for thirteen years (1761-74), and effected improve- ments which led Louis XVI to appoint him comptroller-general of the Kingdom. 2 See The Great Intendant.",
         "CANADA IN 1672 7 His place in history is due in large part to his strong, intense personality, but this must not be permitted to obscure the importance of his office. His duties were to create educational institutions, to shape ecclesiastical policy, and to represent the Church in all its dealings with the government. Many of the problems which confronted Laval had their origin in special and rather singular circumstances. Few, if any, priests had as yet been established in fixed parishes- each with its church and presbytère. Under ordinary conditions parishes would have been established at once, but in Canada the con- ditions were far from ordinary. The Canadian Church sprang from a mission. Its first ministers were members of religious orders who had taken the conversion of the heathen for their chosen task. They had headquarters at Quebec or Montreal, but their true field of action was the wilderness. Having the red man rather than the settler as their charge, they became immersed, and perhaps pre- occupied, in their heroic work. Thus the erection of parishes was delayed. More than one historian has upbraided Laval for thinking so much of the mission that he neglected the spiritual needs of the colonists. However",
         "8 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR this may be, the colony owed much to the missionaries-particularly to the Jesuits. It is no exaggeration to say that the Society of Jesus had been among the strongest forces which stood between New France and de- struction. Other supports failed. The fur trade had been the corner-stone upon which Champlain built up Quebec, but the profits proved disappointing. At the best it was a very uncertain business. Sometimes the prices in Paris dwindled to nothing because the market was glutted. At other times the Indians brought no furs at all to the trading- posts. With its export trade dependent upon the caprice of the savages, the colony often seemed not worth the keeping. In these years of worst discouragement the existence of the mission was a great prop. On his arrival in 1672 Frontenac found the Jesuits, the Sulpicians, and the Récollets all actively engaged in converting the heathen. He desired that more attention should be paid to the creation of parishes for the benefit of the colonists. Over this issue there arose, as we shall see by and by, acute differences between the bishop and the governor. Owing to the large part which religion had in the life of New France the bishop took his",
         "CANADA IN 1672 9 place beside the governor and the intendant. This was the triumvirate of dignitaries. Primarily each represented a different interest -war, business, religion. But they were brought into official contact through member- ship in the Conseil Souverain, which con- trolled all details of governmental action. The Sovereign Council underwent changes of name and composition, but its functions were at all times plainly defined. In 1672 the members numbered seven Of these the governor, the bishop, and the intendant formed the nucleus, the other four being ap- pointed by them. In 1675 the king raised the number of councillors to ten, thus diluting the authority which each possessed, and thence- forth made the appointments himself. Thus during the greater part of Frontenac's régime the governor, the bishop, and the intendant had seven associates at the council-board. Still, as time went on, the king felt that his control over this body was not quite perfect. So in 1703 he changed the name from Sovereign Council to Superior Council, and increased its members to a total of fifteen. The Council met at the Château St Louis on Monday morning of each week, at a round table where the governor had the bishop on",
         "Io THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR his right hand and the intendant on his left. Nevertheless the intendant presided, for the matters under discussion fell chiefly in his domain. Of the other councillors the at- torney-general was the most conspicuous. To him fell the task of sifting the petitions and determining which should be presented. Although there were local judges at Quebec, Three Rivers, and Montreal, the Council had jurisdiction over all important cases, whether criminal or civil. In the sphere of commerce its powers were equally complete and minute. It told merchants what profits they could take on their goods, and how their goods should be classified with respect to the per- centage of profit allowed. Nothing was too petty for its attention. Its records depict with photographic accuracy the nature of French government in Canada. From this source we can see how the principle of paternal- ism was carried out to the last detail. But Canada was a long way from France and the St Lawrence was larger than the Seine. It is hard to fight against nature, and in Canada there were natural obstacles which withstood to some extent the forces of des- potism. It is easy to see how distance from the court gave both governor and intendant",
         "CANADA IN 1672 i a range of action which would have been impossible in France. With the coming of winter Quebec was isolated for more than six months. During this long interval the two officials could do a great many things of which the king might not have approved, but which he was powerless to prevent. His theo- retical supremacy was thus limited by the un- yielding facts of geography. And a better illustration is found in the operation of the seigneurial system upon which Canadian society was based. In France a belated feudalism still held the common man in its grip, and in Canada the forms of feudalism were at least partially established. Yet the Canadian habitant lived in a very different atmosphere from that breathed by the Norman peasant. The Canadian seigneur had an abundance of acreage and little cash. His grant was in the form of uncleared land, which he could only make valuable through the labours of his tenants or censitaires. The difficulty of finding good colonists made it important to give them favourable terms. The habitant had a hard life, but his obliga- tions towards his seigneur were not onerous. The man who lived in a log-hut among the stumps and could hunt at will through the",
         "12 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR forest was not a serf. Though the conditions of life kept him close to his home, Canada meant for him a new freedom. Freest of all were the coureurs de bois, those dare-devils of the wilderness who fill such a large place in the history of the fur trade and of exploration. The Frenchman in all ages has proved abundantly his love of danger and adventure. Along the St Law- rence from Tadoussac to the Sault St Louis seigneuries fringed the great river, as they fringed the banks of its tributary, the Riche- lieu. This was the zone of cultivation, in which log-houses yielded, after a time, to white-washed cottages. But above the Sault St Louis all was wilderness, whether one ascended the St Lawrence or turned at Ile Perrot into the Lake of Two Mountains and the Ottawa. For young and daring souls the forest meant the excitement of discovery, the licence of life among the Indians, and the hope of making more than could be gained by the habitant from his farm. Large profits meant large risks, and the coureur de bois took his life in his hand. Even if he escaped the rapid and the tomahawk, there was an even chance that he would become a reprobate.",
         "CANADA IN 1672 But if his character were of tough fibre, there was also a chance that he might render service to his king. At times of danger the government was glad to call on him for aid. When Tracy or Denonville or Frontenac led an expedition against the Iroquois, it was fortunate that Canada could muster a cohort of men who knew woodcraft as well as the Indians. In days of peace the coureur de bois was looked on with less favour. The king liked to know where his subjects were at every hour of the day and night. A Frenchman at Michilimackinac,' unless he were a missionary or a government agent, incurred severe dis- pleasure, and many were the edicts which sought to prevent the colonists from taking to the woods. But, whatever the laws might say, the coureur de bois could not be put down. From time to time he was placed under restraint, but only for a moment. The intendant might threaten and the priest might plead. It recked not to the coureur de bois when once his knees felt the bottom of the canoe. I The most important of the French posts in the western portion of the Great Lakes, situated on the strait which unites Lake Huron to Lake Michigan. It was here that Saint-Lusson and Perrot took possession of the West in the name of France (June 1671). See The Great Intendant, pp. 115-16. 13",
         "THE F.GHTING GOVERNOR But of the seven thousand French who peopled Canada in 1672 it is probable that not more than four hundred were scattered through the forest. The greater part of the inhabitants occupied the seigneuries along the St Lawrence and the Richelieu. Tadoussac was hardly more than a trading-post. Quebec, Three Rivers, and Montreal were but villages. In the main the life of the people was the life of the seigneuries-an existence well calcu- lated to bring out in relief the ancestral heroism of the French race. The grant of seigneurial rights did not imply that the recipient had been a noble in France. The earliest seigneur, Louis Hébert, was a Parisian apothecary, and many of the Canadian gentry were sprung from the middle class. There was nothing to induce the dukes, the counts, or even the barons of France to settle on the soil of Canada. The governor was a noble, but he lived at the Château St Louis. The seigneur who desired to achieve success must reside on the land he had received and see that his tenants cleared it of the virgin forest. He could afford little luxury, for in almost all cases his private means were small. But a seigneur who fulfilled the conditions of his grant could look forward to occupying a 14",
         "CANADA IN 1672 15 relatively greater position in Canada than he could have occupied in France, and to making better provision for his children. Both the seigneur and his tenant, the habitant, had a stake in Canada and helped to maintain the colony in the face of grievous hardships. The courage and tenacity of the French Canadian are attested by what he endured throughout the years when he was fighting for his foothold. And if he suffered, his wife suffered still more. The mother who brought up a large family in the midst of stumps, bears, and Iroquois knew what it was to be resourceful. Obviously the Canada of 1672 lacked many things-among them the stern resolve which animated the Puritans of New England that their sons should have the rudiments of an education.1 At this point the contrast be- tween New France and New England discloses conflicting ideals of faith and duty. In later years the problem of knowledge assumed larger proportions, but during the period of Frontenac the chief need of Canada was heroism. Possessing this virtue abundantly, Canadians lost no time in lamentations over 1 For example, Harvard College was founded in 1636, and there was a printing-press at Cambridge, Mass., in 163.",
         "16 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR the lack of books or the lack of wealth. The duty of the hour was such as to exclude all remoter vistas. When called on to defend his hearth and to battle for his race, the Canadian was ready.",
         "CHAPTER II LOUIS DE BUADE, COMTE DE FRONTENAC LOUIS DE BUADE, COMTE DE FRONTENAC ET DE PALLUAU, was born in 1620. He was the son of Henri de Buade, a noble at the court of Louis XIII. His mother, Anne de Phélip- peaux, came from a stock which in the early Bourbon period furnished France with many officials of high rank, notably Louis de Phélippeaux, Comte de Pontchartrain. His father belonged to a family of southern France whose estates lay originally in Guienne. It was a fortunate incident in the annais of this family that when Antoine de Bourbon became governor of Guienne (1555) Geoffroy de Buade entered his service. Thenceforth the Buades were attached by close ties to the kings of Navarre. Frontenac's grandfather, Antoine de Buade, figures frequently in the Memoirs of Agrippa d'Aubigné as aide-de-camp to Henry IV; Henri de Buade, Frontenac's father, was a playmate and close friend of F.G. R",
         "18 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Louis XIII ; i and Frontenac himself was a godson and a namesake of the king. While fortune thus smiled upon the cradle of Louis de Buade, some important favours were denied. Though nobly born, Frontenac did not spring from a line which had been of national importance for centuries, like that of Montmorency or Châtillon. Nor did he inherit large estates. The chief advantage which the Buades possessed came from their personal relations with the royal family. Their property in Guienne was not great, and neither Geoffroy, Antoine, nor Henri had possessed commanding abilities. Nor was Frontenac the boyhood friend of his king as his father had been, for Louis XIV was not born till 1638. Frontenac's rank was good enough to give him a chance at the French court. For the rest, his worldly prosperity would depend on his own efforts. Inevitably he became a soldier. He entered the army at fifteen. It was one of the greatest moments in French history. Richelieu was prime minister, and the long 1 As an illustration of their intimacy, there is a story that one day when Henry IV was indisposed he had these two boys on his bed, and amused himself by making them fight with each other.",
         "COMTE DE FRONTENAC strife between France and the House of Hapsburg had just begun to turn definitely in favour of France. Against the Hapsburgs, with their two thrones of Spain and Austria,1 stood the Great Cardinal, ready to use the crisis of the Thirty Years' War for the benefit of his nation--even though this meant a league with heretics. At the moment when Frontenac first drew the sword France (in nominal support of her German allies) was striving to conquer Alsace. The victory which brought the French to the Rhine was won through the capture of Breisach, at the close of 1638. Then in swift succession fol- lowed those astounding victories of Condé and Turenne which destroyed the military pre- eminence of Spain, took the French to the gates of Munich, and wrung from the emperor the Peace of Westphalia (1648). During the thirteen years which followed Frontenac's first glimpse of war it was a glorious thing to be a French soldier. The events of such an era could not fail to leave 'Charles v held all his Spanish, Burgundian, and Austrian inheritance in his own hand from 1519 to 1521. In 1521 he granted the Austrian possessions to his brother Ferdinand. Thenceforth Spain and Austria were never reunited, but their association in politics continued to be intimate until the close of the seventeenth century.",
         "20 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR their mark upon a high-spirited and valorous youth. Frontenac was predestined by family tradition to a career of arms ; but it was his own impetuosity that drove him into war before the normal age. He first served under Prince Frederick Henry of Orange, who was then at the height of his reputation. After several campaigns in the Low Countries his regiment was transferred to the confines of Spain and France. There, in the year of Richelieu's death (1642), he fought at the siege of Perpignan. That he distinguished himself may be seen from his promotion, at twenty- three, to the rank of colonel. In the same year (1643) Louis XIV came to the throne; and Condé, by smiting the Spaniards at Rocroi, won for France the fame of having the best troops in Europe. It was not the good fortune of Frontenac to serve under either Condé or Turenne during those campaigns, so triumphant for France, which marked the close of the Thirty Years' War. From Perpignan he was ordered to northern Italy, where in the course of three years he performed the exploits which made him a brigadier - general at twenty - six. Though repeatedly wounded, he survived twelve years of constant fighting with no",
         "COMTE DE FRONTENAC more serious casualty than a broken arm which he carried away from the siege of Orbitello. By the time peace was signed at Münster he had become a soldier well proved in the most desperate war which had been fought since Europe accepted Christianity. To the great action of the Thirty Years' War there soon succeeded the domestic com- motion of the Fronde. Richelieu, despite his high qualities as a statesman, had been a poor financier; and Cardinal Mazarin, his successor, was forced to cope with a discontent which sprang in part from the misery of the masses and in part from the ambition of the nobles. As Louis XIV was still an infant when his father died, the burden of government fell in name upon the queen-mother, Anne of Austria, but in reality upon Mazarin. Not even the most disaffected dared to rebel against the young king in the sense of disputing his right to reign. But in 1648 the extreme youth of Louis XIV made it easy for discontented nobles, supported by the Parlement of Paris, to rebel against an unpopular minister. The year 1648, which witnessed the Peace of Westphalia and the outbreak of the Fronde, was rendered memorable to Frontenac by his marriage. It was a runaway match, which 21",
         "22 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR began an extraordinary alliance between two very extraordinary people. The bride, Anne de la Grange-Trianon, was a daughter of the Sieur de Neuville, a gentleman whose house in Paris was not far from that of Frontenac's parents. At the time of the elopement she was only sixteen, while Frontenac had reached the ripe age of twenty-eight. Both were high- spirited and impetuous. We know also that Frontenac was hot-tempered. For a short time they lived together and there was a son. But before the wars of the Fronde had closed they drifted apart, from motives which were personal rather than political. Madame de Frontenac then became a maid of honour to the Duchesse de Montpensier, daughter of Gaston d'Orléans 1 and first cousin to Louis XIV. This princess, known as La Grande Mademoiselle, plunged into the politics of the Fronde with a vigour which involved her whole household-Madame de Frontenac included-and wrote Memoirs in which her adventures are recorded at full length, to the pungent criticism of her foes and the en- ' Gaston d'Orléans was the younger brother of Louis XIII, and heir-presumptive until the birth of Louis XIV in 1638. His vanity and his complicity in plots to overthrow Richelieu are equally famous.",
         "LADV FRONTENAC Fr a ip:Iint ing in the Versaillecs Gallery",
         "COMTE DE FRONTENAC thusiastic glorification of herself. Madame de Frontenac was in attendance upon La Grande Mademoiselle during the period of her most spectacular exploits and shared all the excitement which culminated with the famous entry of Orleans in 1652. Madame de Frontenac was beautiful, and to beauty she added the charm of wit. With these endowments she made her way despite her slender means-and to be well-born but poor was a severe hardship in the reign of Louis XIV. Her portrait at Versailles re- flects the striking personality and the intelli- gence which won for her the title La Divine. Throughout an active life she never lacked powerful friends, and Saint-Simon bears wit- ness to the place she held in the highest and most exclusive circle of court society. Frontenac and his wife lived together only during the short period 1648-52. But inter- course was not wholly severed by the fact of domestic separation. It is clear from the Memoirs of the Duchesse de Montpensier that Frontenac visited his wife at Saint-Fargeau, the country seat to which the duchess had been exiled for her part in the wars of the Fronde. Such evidence as there is seems to show that Madame de Frontenac considered herself 23",
         "24 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR deeply wronged by her husband and was unwilling to accept his overtures. From Mademoiselle de Montpensier we hear little after z657, the year of her quarrel with Madame de Frontenac. The maid of honour was accused of disloyalty, tears flowed, the duchess remained obdurate, and, in short, Madame de Frontenac was dismissed. The most sprightly stories of the Frontenacs occur in these Memoirs of La Grande Mademoi- selle. Unfortunately the Duchesse de Mont- pensier was so self-centred that her witness is not dispassionate. She disliked Frontenac, without concealment. As seen by her, he was vain and boastful, even in matters which concerned his kitchen and his plate. His delight in new clothes was childish. He com- pelled guests to speak admiringly of his horses, in contradiction of their manifest appearance. Worst of all, he tried to stir up trouble be- tween the duchess and her own people. Though Frontenac and his wife were unable to live together, they did not become com- pletely estranged. It may be that the death of their son-who seems to have been killed in battle-drew them together once more, at least in spirit. It may be that with the Atlantic between them they appreciated each",
         "COMTE DE FRONTENAC other's virtues more justly. It may have been loyalty to the family tradition. Whatever the cause, they maintained an active corre- spondence during Frontenac's years in Canada, and at court Madame de Frontenac was her husband's chief defence against numerous enemies. When he died it was found that he had left her his property. But she never set foot in Canada. Frontenac was forty-one when Louis XIV dismissed Fouquet and took Colbert for his chief adviser. At Versailles everything de- pended on royal favour, and forty-one is an important age. What would the young king do for Frontenac? What were his gifts and qualifications ? It is plain that Frontenac's career, so vigorously begun during the Thirty Years' War, had not developed in a like degree during the periodi (1648-61) from the outbreak of the Fronde to the death of Mazarin. There was no doubt as to his capacity. Saint-Simon calls him ' a man of excellent parts, living much in society.' And again, when speaking of Madame de Frontenac, he says : ' Like her husband she had little property and abundant wit.' The bane of Frontenac's life at this time was his extravagance. He lived like a million- 25",
         "26 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR aire till his money was gone. Not far from Blois he had the estate of Isle Savary--a property quite suited to his station had he been prudent. But his plans for developing it, with gardens, fountains, and ponds, were wholly beyond his resources. At Versailles, also, he sought to keep pace with men whose ancestral wealth enabled them to do the things which he longed to do, but which fortune had placed beyond his reach. Hence, notwith- standing his buoyancy and talent, Frontenac had gained a reputation for wastefulness which did not recommend him, in 1661, to the prudent Colbert. Nor was he fitted by char- acter or training for administrative duty. His qualifications were such as are of use at a post of danger. His time came in 1669. At the beginning of that year he was singled out by Turenne for a feat of daring which placed him before the eyes of all Europe. A contest was about to close which for twenty-five years had been waged with a stubbornness rarely equalled. This was the struggle of the Venetians with the Turks for the possession of Crete.1 To Venice 'This was not the first time that Frontenac had fought against the Turks. Under La Feuillade and Coligny he had taken part in Montecuculli's campaign in 1664 against the Turks",
         "d /-C 07DldiL \u003cLn~itJattantd.t C.\u0026P Froin an engra viIlg in ilie Chiicau dle Rmi",
         "COMTE DE FRONTENAC defeat meant the end of her glory as an im- perial power. The Republic had lavished treasure upon this war as never before-a sum equivalent in modern money to fifteen hundred million dollars. Even when com- pelled to borrow at seven per cent, Venice kept up the fight and opened the ranks of her nobility to all who would pay sixty thousand ducats. Nor was the valour of the Venetians who defended Crete less noble than the determination of their government. Every man who loved the city of St Mark felt that her fate was at stake before the walls of Candia. Year by year the resources of the Venetians had grown less and their plight more desperate. In 1668 they had received some assistance from French volunteers under the Duc de la Feuillade. This was followed by an applica- tion to Turenne for a general who would com- mand their own troops in conjunction with Morosini. It was a forlorn hope if ever there was one; and Turenne selected Frontenac. in Hungary, and was present at the great victory of St Gothard on the Raab. The regiment of Carignan-Salières was also engaged on this occasion. In the next year it came to Canada, and Lorin thinks that the association of Frontenac with the Carignan regiment in this campaign may have been among the causes of his nomination to the post of governor. 27",
         "28 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Co-operating with him were six thousand French troops under the Duc de Navailles, who nominally served the Pope, for Louis XIV wished to avoid direct war against the Sultan. Al that can be said of Frontenac's part in the adventure is that he valiantly attempted the impossible. Crete was doomed long before he saw its shores. The best that the Venetians and the French could do was to fight for favourable terms of surrender. These they gained. In September 1669 the Venetians evacuated the city of Candia, taking with them their cannon, all their munitions of war, and all their movable property. The Cretan expedition not only confirmed but enhanced the standing which Frontenac had won in his youth. And within three years from the date of his return he received the king's command to succeed the governor Courcelles at Quebec. Gossip busied itself a good deal over the immediate causes of Frontenac's appointment to the government of Canada. The post was hardly a proconsular prize. At first sight one would not think that a small colony destitute of social gaiety could have possessed attrac- tions to a man of Frontenac's rank and train-",
         "COMTE DE FRONTENAC ing. The salary amounted to but eight thou- sand livres a year. The climate was rigorous, and little glory could corne from fighting the Iroquois. The question arose, did Frontenac desire the appointment or was he sent into polite exile ? There was a story that he had once been a lover of Madame de Montespan, who in 1672 found his presence near the court an incon- venience. Others said that Madame de Frontenac had eagerly sought for him the appointment on the other side of the world. A third theory was that, owing to his financial straits, the government gave him something to keep body and soul together in a land where there were no great temptations to spend money. Motives are often mixed; and behind the nomination there may have been various reasons. But whatever weight we allow to gossip, it is not necessary to fall back on any of these hypotheses to account for Frontenac's appointment or for his willingness to accept. While there was no immediate likelihood of a war involving France and England,' and con- ' By the Treaty of Dover (May 20, 167o) Charles II received a pension from France and promised to aid Louis XIV in war with Holland. 29",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR sequent trouble from the English colonies in America, New France required protection from the Iroquois. And, as a soldier, Fron- tenac had acquitted himself with honour. Nor was the post thought to be insignificant. Madame de Sévigné's son-in-law, the Comte de Grignan, was an unsuccessful candidate for it in competition with Frontenac. For some years both the king and Colbert had been giving real attention to the affairs of Canada. The Far West was opening up ; and since 1665 the population of the colony had more than doubled. To Frontenac the governorship of Canada meant promotion. It was an office of trust and responsibility, with the opportunity to extend the king's power throughout the region beyond the Great Lakes. And if the salary was small, the governor could enlarge it by private trading. Whatever his motives,- or the motives of those who sent him, it was a good day for Frontenac when he was sent to Canada. In France the future held out the prospect of little but a humiliating scramble for sinecures. In Canada he could do con- structive work for his king and country. Those who cross the sea change their skies but not their character. Frontenac bore with 30",
         "COMTE DE FRONTENAC him to Quebec the sentiments and the habits which befitted a French noble of the sword.1 The more we know about the life of his class in France, the better we shall understand his actions as governor of Canada. His irasci- bility, for example, seems almost mild when compared with the outbreaks of many who shared with him the traditions and breeding of a privileged order. Frontenac had grown to manhood in the age of Richelieu, a period when fierceness was a special badge of the aristocracy. Thus duelling became so great a menace to the public welfare that it was made punishable with death; despite which it flourished to such an extent that one nobleman, the Chevalier d'Andrieux, enjoyed the reputation of having slain seventy-two antagonists. Where duelling is a habitual and honour- able exercise, men do not take the trouble to restrain primitive passions. Even in dealings with ladies of their own rank, French nobles often stepped over the line where rudeness 1 Frontenac's enemies never wearied of dwelling upon his un- controllable rage. A most interesting discussion of this subject will be found in Frontenac et Ses Amis by M. Ernest Myrand (p. r72). For the bellicose qualities of the French aristocracy see also La Noblesse Frangaise sous Richelieu by the Vicomte G. d'Avenel. 31",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR ends and insult begins. When Malherbe boxed the ears of a viscountess he did nothing which he was unwilling to talk about. Ladies not less than lords treated their servants like dirt, and justified such conduct by the state- ment that the base-born deserve no considera- tion. There was, indeed, no class-not even the clergy-which was exempt from assault by wrathful nobles. In the course of an altercation the Duc d'Epernon, after striking the Archbishop of Bordeaux in the stomach several times with his fists and his baton, exclaimed : ' If it were not for the respect I bear your office, I would stretch you out on the pavement! ' In such an atmosphere was Frontenac reared. He had the manners and the instincts of a belligerent. But he also possessed a soul which could rise above pettiness. And the foes he loved best to smite were the enemies of the king. 32",
         "CHAPTER III FRONTENAC'S FIRST YEARS IN CANADA FRONTENAC received his commission on April 6, 1672, and reached Quebec at the beginning of September. The king, sympathetic to- wards his needs, had authorized two special grants of money: six thousand livres for equipment, and nine thousand to provide a bodyguard of twenty horsemen. Gratified by these marks of royal favour and conscious that he had been assigned to an important post, Frontenac was in hopeful mood when he first saw the banks of the St Lawrence. His letters show that he found the country much less barbarous than he had expected; and he threw himself into his new duties with the courage which is born of optimism. A natural fortress like Quebec could not fail to awaken the enthusiasm of a soldier. The settlement itself was small, but Frontenac re- ported that its situation could not be more favourable, even if this spot were to become the capital of a great empire. It was, indeed, F.G. C",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR a scene to kindle the imagination. Sloping down to the river-bank, the farms of Beau- port and Beaupré filled the foreground. Behind them swept the forest, then in its full autumnal glory. Awaiting Frontenac at Quebec were Cour- celles, the late governor, and Talon the in- tendant. Both were to return to France by the last ships of that year; but in the mean- time Frontenac was enabled to confer with them on the state of the colony and to ac- quaint himself with their views on many im- portant subjects. Courcelles had proved a stalwart warrior against the Iroquois, while Talon possessed an unrivalled knowledge of Canada's wants and possibilities. Laval, the bishop, was in France, not to return to the colony till 1675. The new governor's first acts went to show that with the king's dignity he associated his own. The governor and lieutenant-general of a vast oversea dominion could not degrade his office by living like a shopkeeper. The Château St Louis was far below his idea of what a viceregal residence ought to be. One of his early resolves was to enlarge and im- prove it. Meanwhile, his entertainments sur- passed in splendour anything Canada had yet 34",
         "FIRST YEARS IN CANADA seen. Pomp on a large scale was impossible; but the governor made the best use of his means to display the grace and majesty of his office. On the 17th of September Frontenac pre- sided for the first time at a meeting of the Sovereign Council; i and the formal inaugura- tion of his régime was staged for the 23rd of October. It was to be an impressive cere- mony, a pageant at which all eyes should be turned upon him, the great noble who em- bodied the authority of a puissant monarch. For this ceremony the governor summoned an assembly that was designed to represent the Three Estates of Canada. The Three Estates of clergy, nobles, and commons had existed in France from time immemorial. But in taking this step and in expecting the king to approve it Frontenac displayed his ignorance of French history ; for the ancient meetings of the Three Estates in France had left a memory not dear to the crown.2 They had, in truth, given the kings 1 In the minutes of this first meeting of the Sovereign Council at which Frontenac presided the high-sounding words 'haut et puissant' stand prefixed to his name and titles. 2 The power of the States-General reached its height after the disastrous battle of Poitiers (1356). For a short period, under the leadership of Étienne Marcel, it virtually supplanted the power of the crown. 35",
         "36 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR * moments of grave concern; and their repre- sentatives had not been summoned since 1614. Moreover, Louis XIV was not a ruler to tolerate such rival pretensions as the States- General had once put forth. Parkman thinks that, ' like many of his station, Frontenac was not in full sympathy with the centralizing movement of his time, which tended to level ancient rights, privi- leges and prescriptions under the ponderous roller of the monarchical administration.' This, it may be submitted, is only a conjec- ture. The family history of the Buades shows that they were ' king's men,' who would be the last to imperil royal power. The gathering of the Three Estates at Quebec was meant to be the fitting background of a ceremony. If Frontenac had any thought beyond this, it was a desire to unite all classes in an expression of loyalty to their sovereign. At Quebec it was not difficult to secure re- presentatives of clergy and commons. But, as nobles seldom emigrated to Canada, some talent was needed to discover gentlemen of sufficient standing to represent the aristo- cracy. The situation was met by drawing upon the officers and the seigneurs. The Estates thus duly convened, Frontenac ad-",
         "FIRST YEARS IN CANADA dressed them on the glory of the king and the duty of ail classes to serve him with zeal. To the clergy he hinted that their task was not finished when they had baptized the Indians. After that came the duty of converting them into good citizens. Frontenac's next step was to reorganize the municipal government of Quebec by per- mitting the inhabitants to choose two alder- men and a mayor. Since these officials could not serve until they had been approved by the governor, the change does not appear to have been wildly radical. But change of any kind was distasteful to the Bourbon monarchy, especially if it seemed to point toward freedom. So when in due course Frontenac's report of these activities arrived at Versailles, it was decided that such innovations must be stopped at once. The king wished to discourage ail memory of the Three Estates, and Frontenac was told that no part of the Canadian people should be given a corporate or collective status. The reprimand, however, did not reach Canada till the summer of 1673, so that for some months Frontenac was permitted to view his work with satisfaction. His next move likewise involved a new departure. Hitherto the king had discour- 37",
         "38 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR aged the establishment of forts or trading- posts at points remote from the zone of settle- ment. This policy was based on the belief that the colonists ought to live close together for mutual defence against the Iroquois. But Frontenac resolved to build a fort at the out- let of Lake Ontario. His enemies stated that this arose out of his desire to make personal profit from the fur trade ; but on public grounds also there were valid reasons for the fort. A thrust is often the best parry ; and it could well be argued that the French had much to gain from a stronghold lying within striking distance of the Iroquois villages. At any rate, Frontenac decided to act first and make explanations afterwards. On June 3, 1673, he left Quebec for Montreal and beyond. He accommodated himself with cheerfulness to the bark canoe-which he described in one of his early letters as a rather undignified conveyance for the king's lieu- tenant-and, indeed, to all the hardships which the discharge of his duties entailed. His plan for the summer comprised a thorough inspection of the waterway from Quebec to Lake Ontario and official visits to the settle- ments lying along the route. Three Rivers did not detain him long, for he was already",
         "FIRST YEARS IN CANADA familiar with the place, having visited it in the previous autumn. On the 15th of the month his canoe came to shore beneath Mount Royal. Montreal was the colony's farthest outpost towards the Iroquois. Though it had been founded as a mission and nothing else, its situation was such that its inhabitants could not avoid being drawn into the fur trade. To a large extent it still retained its religious character, but beneath the surface could be detected a cleavage of interest between the missionary zeal of the Sulpicians and the commercial activity of the local governor, François Perrot. And since this Perrot is soon to find place in the present narrative as a bitter enemy of Frontenac, a word concerning him may fitly be written here. He was an officer of the king's army who had come to Canada with Talon. The fact that his wife was Talon's niece had put him in the path- way of promotion. The order of St Sulpice, holding in fief the whole island of Montreal, had power to name the local governor. In June 1669 the Sulpicians had nominated Perrot, and two years later his appointment had been confirmed by the king. Later, as we shall see, arose the thorny question of 39",
         "TBIE FIGHTING GOVERNOR how far the governor of Canada enjoyed superiority over the governor of Montreal. The governor of Montreal, attended by his troops and the leading citizens, stood at the landing-place to offer full military honours to the governor of Canada. Frontenac's arrival was then signalized by a civic reception and a Te Deum. The round of civilities ended, the governor lost no time in unfolding the real purpose of his visit, which was less to confer with the priests of St Sulpice than to re- cruit forces for his expedition, in order that he might make a profound impression on the Iroquois. The proposal to hold a conference with the Iroquois at Cataraqui (where Kings- ton now stands) met with some opposition; but Frontenac's energy and determination were not to be denied, and by the close of June four hundred French and Indians were mustered at Lachine in readiness to launch their canoes and barges upon Lake St Louis. If Montreal was the outpost of the colony, Lachine was the outpost of Montreal. Be- tween these two points lay the great rapid, the Sault St Louis, which from the days of Jacques Cartier had blocked the ascent of the St Lawrence to seafaring boats. At Lachine La Salle had formed his seigneury in 1667, 40",
         "ROBERT CAVELIER DE LA SALLE From an engraving by Waltiier, l'ari.s",
         "FIRST YEARS IN CANADA the year after his arrival in Canada ; and it had been the starting-point for the expedi- tion which resulted in the discovery of the Ohio in 1671. La Salle, however, was not with Frontenac's party, for the governor had sent him to the Iroquois early in May, to tell them that Onontio would meet his children and to make arrangements for the great assembly at Cataraqui. The Five Nations, remembering the chas- tisement they had received from Tracy in 1666,1 accepted the invitation, but in dread and distrust. Their envoys accordingly pro- ceeded to the mouth of the Cataraqui; and on the i2th of July the vessels of the French were seen approaching on the smooth surface of Lake Ontario. Frontenac had omitted from his equipage nothing which could awe or interest the savage. He had furnished his troops with the best possible equipment and had with him all who could be spared safely from the colony. He had even managed to drag up the rapids and launch on Lake Ontario two large barges armed with small cannon and brilliantly painted. The whole flotilla, including a multitude of canoes arranged by squadron, was now put in battle 1 See The Great Intendant, chap. ii. 41",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR array. First came four squadrons of canoes; then the two barges; next Frontenac himself, surrounded by his personal attendants and the regulars ; after that the Canadian militia, with a squadron from Three Rivers on the left flank, and on the right a great gathering of Hurons and Algonquins. The rearguard was composed of two more squadrons. Never before had such a display been seen on the Great Lakes. Having disclosed his strength to the Iroquois chiefs, Frontenac proceeded to hold solemn and stately conference with them. But he did not do this on the day of the great naval procession. He wished to let this spectacle take effect before he approached the business which had brought him there. It was not until next day that the meeting opened. At seven o'clock the French troops, accoutred at their best, were all on parade, drawn up in files before the governor's tent, where the conference was to take place. Outside the tent itself large canopies of canvas had been erected to shelter the Iroquois from the sun, while Frontenac, in his most brilliant military costume, assumed all the state he could. In treating with Indians haste was impossible, nor did Frontenac desire that the speech- 42",
         "FIRST YEARS IN CANADA making should begin at once. His fort was hardly more than begun, and he wished the Iroquois to see how swiftly and how well the French could build defences. When the proceedings opened there were the usual long harangues, followed by daily negotiations between the governor and the chiefs. It was a leading feature of Frontenac's diplomacy to reward the friendly, and to win over malcontents by presents or personal attention. Each day some of the chiefs dined with the governor, who gave them the food they liked, adapted his style of speech to their ornate and metaphorical language, played with their children, and regretted, through the interpreter Le Moyne, that he was as yet unable to speak their tongue. Never had such pleasant flattery been applied to the vanity of an Indian. At the same time Frontenac did not fail to insist upon his power; indeed, upon his supremacy. As a matter of fact it had involved a great effort to make all this display at Cataraqui. In his discourses, however, he laid stress upon the ease with which he had mounted the rapids and launched barges upon Lake Ontario. The sum and substance of all his harangues was this: 'I am your good, kind father, loving 43",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR peace and shrinking from war. But you can see my power and I give you fair warning. If you choose war, you are guilty of self-de- struction ; your fate is in your own hands.' Apart from his immediate success in build- ing under the eyes of the Iroquois a fort at the outlet of Lake Ontario, Frontenac profited greatly by entering the heart of the Indian world in person. He was able, for a time at least, to check those tribal wars which had hampered trade and threatened to involve the colony. He gained much information at first hand about the pays d'en haut. And throughout he proved himself to have just the qualities which were needed in dealing with a North American Indian-firmness, good-humour, and dramatic talent. On returning from Lake Ontario to Quebec Frontenac had good reason to be pleased with his summer's work. It still remained to con- vince Colbert that the construction of the fort at Cataraqui was not an undue expense and waste of energy. But as the initial outlay had already been made, he had ground for hope that he would not receive a positive order to undo what had been accomplished. At Quebec he received Colbert's disparaging com- ments upon the assembly of the Three Estates 44",
         "FIRST YEARS IN CANADA and the substitution of aldermen for the syndic who had formerly represented the inhabi- tants. These comments, however, were not so couched as to make the governor feel that he had lost the minister's confidence. On the whole, the first year of office had gone very well. A stormier season was now to follow. The battle-royal between Frontenac and Perrot, the governor of Montreal, began in the autumn of 1673 and was waged actively throughout the greater part of 1674. Enough has been said of Frontenac's tastes to show that he was a spendthrift ; and there can be no doubt that as governor of Canada he hoped to supplement his salary by private trading. Soon after his arrival at Quebec in the preceding year he had formed an alliance with La Salle. The decision to erect a fort at Cataraqui was made for the double reason that while safeguarding the colony Frontenac and La Salle could both draw profit from the trade at this point in the interior. La Salle was not alone in knowing that those who first met the Indians in the spring secured the best furs at the best bargains. This information was shared by many, in- cluding François Perrot. Just above the island of Montreal is another island, which 45",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR lies between Lake St Louis and the Lake of Two Mountains. Perrot, appreciating the advantage of a strategic position, had fixed there his own trading-post, and to this day the island bears his name. Now, with Frontenac as a sleeping partner of La Salle there were all the elements of trouble, for Perrot and Frontenac were rival traders. Both were wrathful men and each had a selfish interest to fight for, quite apart from any dispute as to the jurisdiction of Quebec over Montreal. Under such circumstances the one thing lacking was a ground of action. This Fron- tenac found in the existing edict against the coureurs de bois-those wild spirits who roamed the woods in the hope of making great profits through the fur trade, from which by law they were excluded, and provoked the special disfavour of the missionary by the scandals of their lives, which gave the Indians a low idea of French morality. Thus in the eyes of both Church and State the coureur de bois was a mauvais sujet, and the offence of taking to the forest without a licence became punishable by death or the galleys. Though Frontenac was not the author of this severe measure, duty required him to enforce it. Perrot was a friend and de- 46",
         "FIRST YEARS IN CANADA fender of the coureurs de bois, whom he used as employees in the collection of peltries. Under his régime Montreal formed their headquarters. The edict gave them no con- cern, since they knew that between them and trouble stood their patron and confederate. Thus Frontenac found an excellent occasion to put Perrot in the wrong and to hit him through his henchmen. The only difficulty was that Frontenac did not possess adequate means to enforce the law. Obviously it was undesirable that he should invade Perrot' bailiwick in person. He therefore instructed the judge at Montreal to arrest all the coureurs de bois who were there. A loyal attempt was made to execute this command, with the result that Perrot at once intervened and threatened to imprison the judge if he repeated his effort. Frontenac's counterblast was the dispatch of a lieutenant and three soldiers to arrest a retainer of Perrot named Carion, who had shown contempt of court by assisting the accused woodsmen to escape. Perrot then proclaimed that this constituted an unlawful attack on his rights as governor of Montreal, to defend which he promptly imprisoned Bizard, the lieutenant sent by Frontenac, to- gether with Jacques Le Ber, the leading 47",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR merchant of the settlement. Though Perrot released them shortly afterwards, his tone toward Frontenac remained impudent and the issue was squarely joined. But a hundred and eighty miles of wilder- ness separated the governor of Canada from the governor of Montreal. In short, before Perrot could be disciplined he must be seized, and this was a task which if attempted by frontal attack might provoke bloodshed in the colony, with heavy censure from the king. Frontenac therefore entered upon a corre- spondence, not only with Perrot, but with one of the leading Sulpicians in Montreal, the Abbé Fénelon. This procedure yielded quicker results than could have been ex- pected. Frontenac's letter which summoned Perrot to Quebec for an explanation was free from threats and moderate in tone. It found Perrot somewhat alarmed at what he had done and ready to settle the matter without further trouble. At the same time Fénelon, acting on Frontenac's suggestion, urged Perrot to make peace. The consequence was that in January 1674 Perrot acceded and set out for Quebec with Fénelon as his companion. Whatever Perrot's hopes or expectations of leniency, they were quickly dispelled. The 48",
         "FIRST YEARS IN CANADA very first conference between him and Fron- tenac became a violent altercation (January 29, 1674). Perrot was forthwith committed to prison, where he remained ten months. Not content with this success, Frontenac pro- ceeded vigorously against the coureurs de bois, one of whom as an example was hanged in front of Perrot's prison. The trouble did not stop here, nor with the imprisonment of Brucy, who was Perrot's chief agent and the custodian of the store- house at Ile Perrot. Fénelon, whose temper was ardent and emotional, felt that he had been made the innocent victim of a de- testable plot to lure Perrot from Montreal. Having upbraided Frontenac to his face, he returned to Montreal and preached a sermon against him, using language which the Sul- picians hastened to repudiate. But Fénelon, undaunted, continued to espouse Perrot's cause without concealment and brought down upon himself a charge of sedition. In its final stage this cause célèbre runs into still further intricacies, involving the rights of the clergy when accused by the civil power. The contest begun by Perrot and taken up by Fénelon ran an active course throughout the greater part of a year (1674), and finally the F.G. D 49",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR king himself was called in as judge. This involved the sending of Perrot and Fénelon to France, along with a voluminous written statement from Frontenac and a great number of documents. At court Talon took the side of Perrot, as did the Abbé d'Urfé, whose cousin, the Marquise d'Allègre, was about to marry Colbert's son. Nevertheless the king declined to uphold Frontenac's enemies. Perrot was given three weeks in the Bastille, not so much for personal chastisement as to show that the governor's authority must be re- spected. On the whole, Frontenac issued from the affair without suffering loss of prestige in the eyes of the colony. The king declined to reprimand him, though in a personal letter from his sovereign Frontenac was told that henceforth he must avoid invading a local government without giving the governor pre- liminary notice. The hint was also conveyed that he should not harry the clergy. Fron- tenac's position, of course, was that he only interfered with the clergy when they were encroaching upon the rights of the crown. Upon this basis, then, the quarrel with Perrot was settled. But at that very moment a larger and more serious contest was about to begin. 50",
         "CHAPTER IV GOVERNOR, BISHOP, AND INTENDANT AT the beginning of September 1675 Fron- tenac was confronted with an event which could have given him little pleasure. This was the arrival, by the same ship, of the bishop Laval, who had been absent from Canada four years, and Jacques Duchesneau, who after a long interval had been appointed to suc- ceed Talon as intendant. Laval returned in triumph. He was now bishop of Quebec, directly dependent upon the Holy See 1 and not upon the king of France. Duchesneau came to Canada with the reputation of having proved a capable official at Tours. By temper and training Frontenac was ill- disposed to share authority with any one. In the absence of bishop and intendant he had filled the centre of the stage. Now he must become reconciled to the presence at Quebec 1 Laval had wished strongly that the see of Quebec should be directly dependent on the Papacy, and his insistence on this point delayed the formal creation of the diocese.",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR of others who held high rank and had claims to be considered in the conduct of public affairs. Even at the moment of formal welcome he must have felt that trouble was in store. For sixteen years Laval had been a great person in Canada, and Duchesneau had come to occupy the post which Talon had made almost more important than that of governor. Partly through a clash of dignities and partly through a clash of ideas, there soon arose at Quebec a conflict which rendered personal friendship among the leaders impossible, ard caused itself to be felt in every part of the administration. Since this antagonism lasted for seven years and had large consequences, it becomes important to examine its deeper causes as well as the forms which under vary- -ing circumstances it came to assume. In the triangular relations of Frontenac, Laval, and Duchesneau the bishop and the intendant were ranged against the governor. The simplest form of stating the case is to say that Frontenac clashed with Laval over one set of interests and with Duchesneau over another ; over ecclesiastical issues with the bishop and over civil interests with the in- tendant. In the Sovereign Council these 52",
         "GOVERNOR, BISHOP, INTENDANT 53 three dignitarie. sat together, and so close was the connection of Church with State that not a month could pass without bringing to light some fresh matter which concerned them all. Broadly speaking, the differences between Frontenac and Lavai were of more lasting moment than those between Frontenac and Duchesneau. In the end governor and in- tendant quarrelled over everything simply because they had come to be irreconcilable enemies. At the outset, however, their theo- retical grounds of opposition were much less grave than the matters in debate between Frontenac and Laval. To appreciate these duly we must consider certain things which were none the less important because they lay in the background. When Frontenac came to Canada he found that the ecclesiastical field was largely occu- pied by the Jesuits, the Sulpicians, and the Récollets. Laval had, indeed, begun his task of organizing a diocese at Quebec and pre- paring to educate a local priesthood. Four years after his arrival in Canada he had founded the Quebec Seminary (1663) and had added (1668) a preparatory school, called the Little Seminary. But the three missionary orders were still the mainstay of the Canadian",
         "54 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Church. It is evident that Colbert not only considered the Jesuits the most powerful, but also thought them powerful enough to need a check. Hence, when Frontenac received his commission, he received also written instruc- tions to balance the Jesuit power by sup- porting the Sulpicians and the Récollets. Through his dispute with Perrot, Frontenac had strained the good relations which Colbert wished him to maintain with the Sulpicians. But the friction thus caused was in no way due to Frontenac's dislike of the Sulpicians as an order. Towards the Jesuits, on the other hand, he cherished a distinct antagon- ism which led him to carry out with vigour the command that he should keep their power within bounds. This can be seen from the earliest dispatches which he sent to France. Before he had been in Quebec three months he reported to Colbert that it was the practice of the Jesuits to stir up strife in families, to resort to espionage, to abuse the confessional, to make the Seminary priests their puppets, and to deny the king's right to license the brandy trade. What seemed to the Jesuits an unforgivable affront was Frontenac's charge that they cared more for beaver skins than for the conversion of the savages. This",
         "GOVERNOR, BISHOP, INTENDANT 55 they interpreted as an insult to the memory of their martyrs, and their resentment must have been the greater because the accusation was not made publicly in Canada, but formed part of a letter to Colbert in France. The information that such an attack had been made reached them through Laval, who was then in France and found means to acquaint himself with the nature of Frontenac's corre- spondence. Having displeased the Sulpicians and at- tacked the Jesuits, Frontenac made amends to the Church by cultivating the most friendly relations with the Récollets. No one ever accused him of being a bad Catholic. He was exact in the performance of his religious duties, and such trouble as he had with the ecclesi- astical authorities proceeded from political aims rather than from heresy or irreligion. Like so much else in the life of Canada, the strife between Frontenac and Laval may be traced back to France. During the early years of Louis XIV the French Church was distracýted by the disputes of Gallican and Ultramontane. The Gallicans were faithful Catholics who nevertheless held that the king and the national clergy had rights which the Pope must respect. The Ultramontanes",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR defined papal power more widely and sought to minimize, disregard, or deny the privileges of the national Church. Between these parties no point of doctrine was involved,1 but in the sphere of govern- ment there exists a frontier between Church and State along which many wars of argument can be waged-at times with some display of force. The Mass, Purgatory, the Saints, Con- fession, and the celibacy of the priest, all meant as much to the Gallican as to the Ultramontane. Nor did the Pope's headship prove a stumbling-block in so far as it was limited to things spiritual. The Gallican did, indeed, assert the subjection of the Pope to a General Council, quoting in his support the decrees of Constance and Basel. But in the seventeenth century this was a theoretical contention. What Louis XIV and Bossuet strove for was the limitation of papal power in matters affecting property and politi- cal rights. The real questions upon which Gallican and Ultramontane differed were the 1 The well-known relation of the Jansenist movement to Gallican liberties was not sûch that the Gallican party accepted Jansenist theology. The Jesuits upheld papal infallibility and, in general, the Ultramontane position. The Jansenists were opposed to the Jesuits, but Gallicanism was one thing and Jansenist theology another. 56",
         "GOVERNOR, BISHOP, INTENDANT 57 appointment of bishops and abbots, the con- tribution of the Church to the needs of the State, and the priest's standing as a subject of the king. Frontenac was no theorist, and probably would have written a poor treatise on the re- lations of Church and State. At the same time, he knew that the king claimed certain rights over the Church, and he was the king's lieutenant. Herein lies the deeper cause of his troubles with the Jesuits and Laval. The Jesuits had been in the colony for fifty years and felt that they knew the spiritual require- ments of both French and Indians. Their missions had been illuminated by the supreme heroism of Brébeuf, Jogues, Lalemant, and many more. Their house at Quebec stood half-way between Versailles and the wilder- ness. They were in close alliance with Laval and supported the ideal and divine rights of the Church. They had found strong friends in Champlain and Montmagny. Frontenac, however, was a layman of anothe: type. However orthodox his religious ideas may have been, his heart was not lowly and his temper was not devout. Intensely auto- cratic by disposition, he found it easy to identify his own will to power with a defence",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR of royal prerogative against the encroach- ments of the Church. It was an attitude that could not fail to beget trouble, for the Ultra- montanes had weapons of defence which they well knew how to use. Having in view these ulterior motives, the acrimony of Frontenac's quarrel with Laval is not surprising. Rightly or wrongly, the governor held that the bishop was sub- servient to the Jesuits, while Colbert's plain instructions required the governor to keep the Jesuits in check. From such a starting- point the further developments were almost automatic. Laval found on his return that Frontenac had exacted from the clergy un- usual and excessive honours during church services. This furnished a subject of heated debate and an appeal by both parties to the king. After full consideration Frontenac re- ceived orders to rest content with the same honours which were by custom accorded the governor of Picardy in the cathedral of Amiens. More important by far than this argument over precedence was the dispute concerning the organization of parishes. Here the issue hinged on questions of fact rather than of theory. Beyond question the habitants were entitled to have priests living permanently in 58",
         "'GOVERNOR, BISHOP, INTENDANT 59 their midst, as soon as conditions should warrant it. But had the time corne when a, parish system could be created ? Laval's opinion may be inferred from the fact that in 1675, sixteen years after his arrival in Canada, only one priest lived throughout the year among his own people. This was the Abbé de Bernières, curé of Notre Dame at Quebec. In 1678 two more parishes received permanent incumbents-Port Royal and La Durantaye. Even so, it was a small number for the whole colony. Frontenac maintained that Laval was un- willing to create a normal system of parishes because thereby his personal power would be reduced. As long as the curés were not permanently stationed they remained in com- plete dependence on the bishop. All the funds provided for the secular clergy passed through his hands. If he wished to keep for the Seminary money which ought to go to the parishes, the habitants were helpless. It was ridiculous to pamper the Seminary at the ex- pense of the colonists. It was worse than ridiculous that the French themselves should go without religious care because the Jesuits chose to give prior attention to the souls of the savage.",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Laval's argument in reply was that the time had not yet come for the creation of parishes on a large scale. Doubtless it would prove possible in the future to have churches and a parochial system of the normal type. Mean- while, in view of the general poverty it was desirable that all the resources of the Church should be conserved. To this end the habi- tants were being cared for by itinerant priests at much less expense than would be entailed by fixing on each parish the support of its curé. Here, as in all these contests, a mixture of motives is evident. There is no reason to doubt Frontenac's sincerity in stating that the missions and the Seminary absorbed funds of the Church which would be better employed in ministration to the settlers. At the same time, it was for him a not unpleasant exercise to support a policy which would have the incidental effect of narrowing the bishop's power. After some three years of contro- versy the king, as usual, stepped in to settle the matter. By an edict of May 1679 he ordained that the priests should live in their parishes and have the free disposition of the tithes which had been established under an order of 1667. Thus on the subject of the 60",
         "GOVERNOR, BISHOP, INTENDANT 61 curés Frontenac's views were officially ac- cepted; but his victory was rendered more nominal than real by the unwillingness or inability of the habitants to supply sufficient funds for the support of a resident priesthood. In Frontenac's dispute with the clergy over the brandy question no new arguments were brought forward, since all the main points had been covered already. It was an old quarrel, and there was nothing further to do than to set forth again the opposing aspects of a very difficult subject. Religion clashed with busi- ness, but that was not all. Upon the prosecu- tion of business hung the hope of building up for France a vast empire. The Jesuits urged that the Indians were killing themselves with brandy, which destroyed their souls and re- duced them to the level of beasts. The traders retorted that the savages would not go with- out drink. If they were denied it by the French they would take their furs to Albany, and there imbibe not only bad rum but soul- destroying heresy. Why be visionary and suffer one's rivals to secure an advantage which would open up to them the heart of the continent ? Laval, on the other hand, had chosen his side in this controversy long before Frontenac",
         "62 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR came to Canada, and he was not one to change his convictions lightly. As he saw it, the sale of brandy to the Indians was a sin, punishable by excommunication; and so determined was he that the penalty should be enforced that he would allow the right of absolution to no one but himself. In the end the king decided it otherwise. He declared the regulation of the brandy trade to fall within the domain of the civil power. He warned Frontenac to avoid an open denial of the bishop's authority in this matter, but directed hin to prevent the Church from interfering in a case belonging to the sphere of public order. This decision was not reached without deep thought. In favour of prohibition stood Laval, the Jesuits, the Sorbonne, the Archbishop of Paris, and the king's confessor, Père La Chaise. Against it were Frontenac, the chief laymen of Canada,' the University of Toulouse, and Colbert. In extricating himself from this labyrinth of con- flicting opinion Louis XIV was guided by reasons of general policy. He had never seen the Mohawks raving drunk, and, like Frontenac, 1 On October 26, 1678, a meeting of the leading inhabîtants of Canada was held by royal order at Quebec to consider the rights and wrongs of the brandy question. A large majority of those present were opposed to prohibition.",
         "GOVERNOR, BISHOP, INTENDANT 63 he felt that without brandy the work of France in the wilderness could not go on. Such were the issues over which Frontenac and Laval faced each other in mutual anta- gonism. Between Frontenac and his other opponent, the intendant Duchesneau, the strife revolved about a different set of questions without losing any of its bitterness. Frontenac and Laval disputed over ecclesiastical affairs. Frontenac and Duchesneau disputed over civil affairs. But as Laval and Duchesneau were both at war with Frontenac they natur- ally drew together. The alliance was rendered more easy by Duchesneau's devoutness. Even had he wished to hold aloof from the quarrel of governor and bishop, it would have been difficult to do so. But as an active friend of Laval and the Jesuits he had no desire to be a neutral spectator of the feud which ran parallel with his own. The two feuds soon became intermingled, and Frontenac, instead of confronting separate adversaries, found him- self engaged with allied forces which were ready to attack or defend at every point. It could not have been otherwise. Quebec was a small place, and the three belligerents were brought into the closest official contact by",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR their duties as members of the Sovereign Council. It is worthy of remark that each of the con- testants, Frontenac, Laval, and Duchesneau, has his partisans among the historians of the present day. Al modern writers agree that Canada suffered grievously from these dis- putes, but a difference of opinion at once arises when an attempt is made to distribute the blame. The fact is that characters separately strong and useful often make an unfortun- ate combination. Compared with Laval and Frontenac, Duchesneau was not a strong character, but he possessed qualifications which might have enabled him in less stormy times to fill the office of intendant with toler- able credit. It was his misfortune that cir- cumstances forced hii into the thankless position of being a henchman to the bishop and a drag upon the governor. Everything which Duchesneau did gave Frontenac annoyance-the more so as the intendant came armed with very considerable powers. During the first three years of Frontenac's administration the governor, in the absence of an intendant, had lorded it over the colony with a larger freedom from re- straint than was normal under the French 64",
         "GOVERNOR, BISHOP, INTENDANT 65 colonial system. Apparently Colbert was not satisfied with the result. It may be that he feared the vigour which Frontenac displayed in taking the initiative; or the quarrel with Perrot may have created a bad impression at Versailles ; or it may have been considered that the less Frontenac had to do with the routine of business, the more the colony would thrive. Possibly Colbert only sought to de- fine anew the relations which ought to exist between governor and intendant. Whatever the motive, Duchesneau's instructions gave him a degree of authority which proved galling to the governor. Within three weeks from the date of Duchesneau's arrival the fight had begun (September 23, 1675). In its earliest phase it' concerned the right to preside at meetings of the Sovereign Council. For three years Frontenac, ' high and puissant seigneur,' had conducted proceedings as a matter of course. Duchesneau now asked him to retire from this position, producing as warrant his com- mission which stated that he should preside over the Council, ' in the absence of the said Sieur de Frontenac.' Why this last clause should have been inserted one finds it hard to understand, for Colbert's subsequent letters F.G. E",
         "66 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR place his intention beyond doubt. He meant that Duchesneau should preside, though with- out detracting from Frontenac's superior dignity. The order of precedence at the Council is fixed with perfect clearness. First comes the governor, then the bishop, and then the intendant. Yet the intendant is given the chair. Colbert may have thought that Duchesneau as a man of business possessed a better training for this special work. Clearly the step was not taken with a view to placing an affront upon Frontenac. When he com- plained, Colbert replied that there was no other man in France who, being already a governor and lieutenant-general, would con- sider it an increase of honour to preside over the Council. In Colbert's eyes this was a clerk's work, not a soldier's. Frontenac saw the matter differently and was unwilling to be deposed. Royal letters, which he produced, had styled him ' President of the Council,' and on the face of it Duches- neau's commission only indicated that he should preside in Frontenac's absence. With these arguments the governor stood his ground. Then followed the representations of both parties to the king, each taxing the other with misdemeanours both political and",
         "GOVERNOR, BISHOP, INTENDANT 67 personal. During the long period which must elapse before a reply could be received, the Sovereign Council was turned into an academy of invective. Besides governor, bishop, and intendant, there were seven members who were called upon to take sides in the contest. No one could remain neutral even if he had the desire. In voting power Laval and Duches- neau had rather the best of it, but Frontenac when pressed could fall back on physical force; as he once did by banishing three of the councillors-Villeray, Tilly, and Auteuil- from Quebec (July 4, 1679). Incredible as it may seem, this issue regard- ing the right to preside was not settled until the work of the Council had been disturbed by it for five years. What is still more in- credible, it was settled by compromise. The king's final ruling was that the minutes of each meeting should register the presence of governor and intendant without saying which had presided. Throughout the controversy Colbert remonstrated with both Frontenac and Duchesneau for their turbulence and un- willingness to work together. Duchesneau is told that he must not presume to think him- self the equal of the governor. Frontenac is told that the intendant has very important",
         "68 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR functions and must not be prevented from discharging them. The whole episode shows how completely the French colonial system broke down in its attempt to act through two officials, each of whom was designed to be a check upon the other. Wholly alienated by this dispute, Frontenac and Duchesneau soon found that they could quarrel over anything and everything. Thus Duchesneau became a consistent supporter of Laval and the Jesuits, while Frontenac retaliated by calling him their tool. The brandy question, which was partly ecclesi- astical and partly civil, proved an excellent battle-ground for the three great men of Canada; and, as finance was concerned, the intendant had something to say about the establishment of parishes. But of the mani- fold contests between Frontenac and Duches- neau the most distinctive is that relating to the fur trade. At first sight this matter would appear to lie in the province of the intendant, whose functions embraced the supervision of commerce. But it was the governor's duty to defend the colony from attack, and the fur trade was a large factor in all relations with the Indians. A personal element was also added, for in almost every letter to the",
         "GOVERNOR, BISHOP, INTENDANT 69 minister Frontenac and Duchesneau accused each other of taking an illicit profit from beaver skins. In support of these accusations the most minute details are given. Duchesneau even charged Frontenac with spreading a report among the Indians of the Great Lakes that a pestilence had broken out in Montreal. Thereby the governor's agents were enabled to buy up beaver skins cheaply, afterwards selling them on his account to the English. Frontenac rejoined by accusing the intendant of having his own warehouses at Montreal and along the lower St Lawrence, of being truculent, a slave to the bishop, and in- competent. Behind Duchesneau, Frontenac keeps saying, are the Jesuits and the bishop, from whom the spirit of faction really springs. Among many of these tirades the most elaborate is the long memorial sent to Colbert in 1677 on the general state of Canada. Here are some of the items. The Jesuits keep spies in Frontenac's own house. The bishop de- clares that he has the power to excommunicate the governor if necessary. The Jesuit mission- aries tell the Iroquois that they are equal to Onontio. Other charges are that the Jesuits meddle in all civil affairs, that their revenues",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR are enormous in proportion to the poverty of the country, and that they are bound to domineer at whatever cost. When we consider how Canada from end to end was affected by these disputes, we may well feel surprise that Colbert and the king should have suffered them to rage so long. By 1682 the state of things had become unbearable. Partisans of Frontenac and Du- chesneau attacked each other in the streets. Duchesneau accused Frontenac of having struck the young Duchesneau, aged sixteen, and torn the sleeve of his jacket. He also declared that it was necessary to barricade his house. Frontenac retorted by saying that these were gross libels. A year earlier Colbert had placed his son, Seignelay, in charge of the Colonial Office. With matters at such a pass Seignelay rightly thought the time had come to take decisive action. Three courses were open to him. The bishop and the Jesuits he could not recall. But both the governor and the intendant came within his power. One alternative was to dismiss Frontenac; another, to dismiss Duchesneau. Seignelay chose the third course and dis- missed them both. 7o0",
         "CHAPTER V FRONTENAC'S PUBLIC POLICY As was said long ago, every one has the de- fects of his qualities. Yet, in justice to a man of strong character and patriotic aim, the chronicler should take care that constructive work is given its due place, for only those who do nothing make no mistakes. During his first term of office Frontenac had many enemies in the higher circles of society. His quarrel with Laval was a cause of scandal to the devout. His deadlock with Duchesneau dislocated the routine of govern- ment. There was no one who did not feel the force of his will. Yet to friends and foes alike his recall at sixty-two must have seemed the definite, humiliating close of a career. It was not the moment to view in due perspective what he had accomplished. His shortcomings were on the lips of every one. His strength had been revealed, but was for the time for- gotten. When he left Quebec in 1682 he must",
         "72 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR have thought that he would never see it again. Yet when need came he was remembered. This fact is a useful comment on his first term, extenuating much that had seemed ground for censure in less troubled days. Let us now regard Frontenac's policy from his own point of view, and attempt to estimate what he had accomplished down to the date of his recall. However closely Laval and Duchesneau might seek to narrow Frontenac's sphere of action, there was one power they could not deny him. As commander of the king's troops in Canada he controlled all matters relating to colonial defence. If his domestic administration was full of trouble, it must also be remembered that during his first term of office there was no war. This happy result vas due less to accident than to his own gifts and character. It is true that the friendship of Louis XIV and Charles II assured peace between New France and New England. But Canada could thank Frontenac for keeping the Iroquois at arm's length. We have seen how he built the stronghold at Cataraqui, which was named Fort Fron- tenac. The vigour and the tact that he dis- played on this occasion give the keynote to",
         "FRONTENAC'S PUBLIC POLICY 73 all his relations with the Indians. Towards them he displayed the three qualities which a governor of Canada most needed-firmness, sympathy, and fair dealing. His arrogance, so conspicuous in his intercourse with equals or with refractory subordinates, disappears wholly when he comes into contact with the savages. Theatrical he may be, but in the forest he is never intolerant or narrow-minded. And behind his pageants there is always power. Thus Frontenac should receive personal credit for the great success of his Indian policy. He kept the peace by moral ascend- ancy, and to see that this was no light task one need only compare the events of his régime with those which marked the period of his successors, La Barre and Denonville. This we shall do in the next chapter. For the present it is enough to say that throughout the full ten years 1672-82 Canada was free from fear of the Iroquois. Just at the close of Frontenac's first term (1680-82) the Senecas were showing signs of restlessness by attacking tribes allied to the French, but there is abun- dant reason to suppose that had Frontenac remained in office he could have kept these inter-tribal wars under control.",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Bound up with the success of Frontenac's Indian policy is the exploration of the West- an achievement which adds to this period its chief lustre. Here La Salle is the outstanding figure and the laurels are chiefly his. None the less, Frontenac deserves the credit of having encouraged all endeavours to solve the problem of the Mississippi. Like La Salle he had large ideas and was not afraid. They co - operated in perfect harmony, sharing profits, perhaps, but sincerely bent on gaining for France a new, vast realm. The whole history of colonial enterprise shows how fortunate the French have been in the co- operation of their explorers with their pro- vincial governors. The relations of La Salle with La Barre form a striking exception, but the statement holds true in the main, and with reference to Algiers as well as to Canada. La Salle was a frank partisan of Frontenac throughout the quarrel with Perrot and Fénelon. On one occasion he made a scene in church at Montreal. It was during the Easter service of 1674. When Fénelon de- cried magistrates who show no respect to the clergy and who use their deputed power for their own advantage, La Salle stood up and called the attention of the leading citizens to 74",
         "FRONTENAC'S PUBLIC POLICY these words. Frontenac, who was always a loyal ally, showed that he appreciated La Salle's efforts on his behalf by giving him a letter of recommendation to the court in which La Salle is styled 'a man of intelligence and ability, more capable than any one else I know here to accomplish every kind of enterprise and discovery which may be entrusted to him.' The result of La Salle's visit to Versailles (1674) was that he gained privileges which made him one of the most important men in Canada, and a degree of power which brought down on him many enemies. He received the seigneury of Fort Frontenac, he was made local governor at that post, and, in recognition of services already performed, he gained a grant of nobility. It is clear that La Salle's forceful personality made a strong impression at court, and the favours which he received enabled him, in turn, to secure financial aid from his wealthy relatives at Rouen. What followed was the most brilliant, the most exciting, and the most tragic chapter in the French exploration of America. La Salle fulfilled all the conditions upon which he had received the seigneury at Fort Frontenac, and found financial profit in maintaining the post. 75",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR The original wooden structure was replaced by stone, good barracks were built for the troops, there were bastions upon which nine cannon announced a warning to the Iroquois, a settlement with well-tilled land sprang up around the fort, schooners were built with a draught of forty tons. But for La Salle this was not enough. He was a pathfinder, not a trader. Returning to France after two years of labour and success at Fort Frontenac, he secured a royal patent authorizing him to explore the whole continent from the Great Lakes to Mexico, with the right to build forts therein and to enjoy a monopoly of the trade in buffalo skins. The expenses of the under- taking were, of course, to be borne by La Salle and his associates, for the king never in- vested money in these enterprises. However, the persuasiveness which enabled La Salle to secure his patent enabled him to borrow the necessary funds. At the close of 1678 he was once more at Fort Frontenac and ready for the great adventure. How La Salle explored the country of the Illinois in company with his valiant friend, Henri de Tonty ' of the iron hand,' and how these two heroic leaders traversed the con- tinent to the very mouth of the Mississippi, 76",
         "FRONTENAC'S PUBLIC POLICY is not to be told here. But with its risks, its hardships, its tragedies, and its triumphs, this episode, which belongs to the period of Frontenac's administration, will always re- main a classic in the records of discovery. The Jesuits, who did not love La Salle, were no less brave than he, and the lustre of his achievements must not be made to dim theirs. Yet they had all the force of a mighty organization at their back, while La Salle, standing alone, braved ruin, obloquy, and death in order to win an empire for France. Sometimes he may have thought of fame, but he possessed that driving power which goes straight for the object, even if it means sacrifice of self. His haughtiness, his daring, his self-centred determination, well fitted him to be the friend and trusted agent of Frontenac. Another leading figure of the period in western discovery was Daniel Greysolon du Lhut. Duchesneau calls him the leader of the coureurs de bois. There can be no doubt that he had reached this eminence among the French of the forest. He was a gentleman by birth and a soldier by early training. In many ways he resembled La Salle, for both stood high above the common coureurs de 77",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR bois in station, as in talent. Du Lhut has to his credit no single exploit which equals La Salle's descent of the Mississippi, but in native sagacity he was the superior. With a temperament less intense and experiences less tragic, he will never hold the place which La Salle securely occupies in the annals of adven- ture. But few Frenchmen equalled him in knowledge of the wilderness, and none dis- played greater force of character in dealing with the Indians. What the mouth of the Mississippi was to La Salle the country of the Sioux became to Du Lhut-a goal to be reached at all hazards. Not only did he reach it, but the story of how he rescued Father Hennepin from the Sioux (x68o) is anong the liveliest tales to be found in the literature of the wilderness. The only regrettable circumstance is that the story should have been told by Hennepin instead of by Du Lhut-or rather, that we should not have also Du Lhut's detailed version instead of the brief account which he has left. Above all, Du Lhut made himself the guardian of French interests at Michilimackinac, the chief French post of the Far West-the rendezvous of more tribes than came together at any other point. The finest tale of his courage 78",
         "FRONTENAC'S PUBLIC POLICY and good judgment belongs to the period of La Barre's government-when, in 1684, at the head of forty-two French, he executed sentence of death on an Indian convicted of murder. Four hundred savages, who had assembled in mutinous mood, witnessed this act of summary justice. But they respected Du Lhut for the manner in which he had con- ducted the trial, and admired the firmness with which he executed a fair sentence. Du Lhut's exploits and character make him the outstanding figure of the war which Duchesneau waged against the coureurs de bois. The intendant certainly had the letter of the law on his side in seeking to clear the woods of those rovers who at the risk of their own lives and without expense to the govern- ment were gaining for France an unequalled knowledge of the interior. Not only had the king decreed that no one should be permitted to enter the forest without express permission, but an edict of 1676 denied even the governor the right to issue a trading pass at his unre- strained discretion. Frontenac, who believed that the colony would draw great profit from exploration, softened the effect of this measure by issuing licences to hunt. It was also within his power to dispatch messengers to the tribes 79",
         "80 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR of the Great Lakes. Duchesneau reported that Frontenac evaded the edict in order to favour his own partners or agents among the coureurs de bois, and that when he went to Montreal on the pretext of negotiating with the Iroquois, his real purpose was to take up merchandise and bring back furs. These charges Frontenac denied with his usual vigour, but without silencing Duchesneau. In 1679 the altercation on this point was brought to an issue by the arrest, at the in- tendant's instance, of La Toupine, a retainer of Du Lhut. An accusation of disobeying the edict was no trifle, for the penalty might mean a sentence to the galleys. After a bitter contest over La Toupine the matter was settled on a basis not unfavourable to Fron- tenac. In 1681 a fresh edict declared that all coureurs de bois who came back to the colony should receive the benefit of an amnesty. At the same time the governor was empowered to grant twenty-five trading licences in each year, the period to be limited to one year. The splendid services of Du Lhut, covering a period of thirty years, are the best vindica- tion of Frontenac's policy towards him and his associates. Had Duchesneau succeeded in his efforts, Du Lhut would have been",
         "j-;,-' 'r j FIGURE OF FRONTENAC From the Hébert Statue at Quebec",
         "FRONTENAC'S PUBLIC POLICY 81 severely punished, and probably excluded from the West for the remainder of his life. Thanks to Frontenac's support, he became the mainstay of French interests from Lake Ontario to the Mississippi. Setting out as an adventurer with a strong taste for ex- ploration, hie ended as commandant of the most important posts-Lachine, Cataraqui, and Michilimackinac. He served the colony nobly in the war against the Iroquois. He has left reports of his discoveries which disclose marked literary talent. From the early years of Frontenac's régime he made himself useful, not only to Frontenac but to each succeeding governor, until, crippled by gout and age, he died, still in harness. The letter in which the governor Vaudreuil announces Du Lhut's death (1710) to the Colonial Office at Paris is a useful comment upon the accusations of Duchesneau. 'He was,' says Vaudreuil, ' a very honest man.' In these words will be found an indirect commendation of Frontenac, who discovered Du Lhut, supported him through bitter opposition, and placed him where his talents and energy could be used for the good of his country. It will be remembered that Frontenac re- ceived orders fron Colbert (April 7, 1672) to F.G. /",
         "82 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR prevent the Jesuits from becoming too power- ful. In carrying out these instructions he soon found himself embroiled at Quebec, and the same discord made itself felt throughout the wilderness. Frontenac favoured the establishment of trading-posts and government forts along the great waterways, from Cataraqui to Crève- cur.1 He sincerely believed that these were the best guarantees of the king's power on the Great Lakes and in the valley of the Missis- sippi. The Jesuits saw in each post a centre of debauchery and feared that their religious work would be undone by the scandalous example of the coureurs de bois. What for Frontenac was a question of political ex- pediency loomed large to the Jesuits as a vital issue of morals. It was a delicate question at best, though probably a peaceable solution could have been arranged, but for the mutual agreement of Frontenac and the Jesuits that they must be antagonists. War having once been declared, Frontenac proved a poor con- troversialist. He could have defended his forest policy without alleging that the Jesuits maintained their missions as a source of ' Fort Crèvecur was La Salle's post in the heart of the Illnois country.",
         "FRONTENAC'S PUBLIC POLICY 83 profit, which was a slander upon heroes and upon martyrs. Moreover, he exposed himself to a flank attack, for it could be pointed out with much force that he had private motives in advocating the erection of forts. Fron- tenac was intelligent and would have recom- mended the establishment of posts whether he expected profit from them or not, but he weakened his case by attacking the Jesuits on wrong grounds. During Frontenac's first term the settled part of Canada was limited to the shores of the St Lawrence from Lachine downward, with a cluster of seigneuries along the lower Riche- lieu. In this region the governor was ham- pered by the rights of the intendant and the influence of the bishop. Westward of Lachine stretched the wilderness, against whose dusky denizens the governor must guard the colony. The problems of the forest embraced both trade and war ; and where trade was con- cerned the intendant held sway. But the safety of the flock came first, and as Frontenac had the power of the sword he could execute his plans most freely in the region which lay beyond the fringe of settlement. It was here that he achieved his greatest success and by his acts won a strong place in the confidence",
         "84 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR of the settlers. This was much, and to this extent his first term of office was not a failure. As Canada was then so sparsely settled, the growth of population filled a large place in the shaping of public policy. With this matter, however, Duchesneau had more to do than Frontenac, for it was the intendant's duty to create prosperity. During the decade 1673-83 the population of Canada increased from 6705 to 10,251. In percentage the advance shows to better advantage than in totals, but the king had hardened his heart to the demand for colonists. Thenceforth the population of Canada was to be recruited almost altogether from births. On the whole, the growth of the population during this period compares favourably with the growth of trade. In 1664 a general monopoly of Canadian trade had been con- ceded to the West India Company, on terms which gave every promise of success. But the trading companies of France proved a series of melancholy failures, and at this point Colbert fared no better than Richelieu. When Fron- tenac reached Canada the West India Com- pany was hopelessly bankrupt, and in 1674 the king acquired its rights. This change pro- duced little or no improvement. Like France,",
         "FRONTENAC'S PUBLIC POLICY 85 Canada suffered greatly through the war with Holland, and not till after the Peace of Nimwegen (1678) did the commercial horizon begin to clear. Even then it was impossible to note any real progress in Canadian trade, except in a slight enlargement of relations with the West Indies. During his last year at Quebec Duchesneau gives a very gloomy report on commercial conditions. For this want of prosperity Frontenac was in no way responsible, unless his troubles with Lavai and Duchesneau may be thought to have damped the colonizing ardour of Louis XIV. It is much more probable that the king withheld his bounty from Canada because his attention was concentrated on the costly war against Holland. Campaigns at home meant economy in Canada, and the colony was far from having reached the stage where it could flourish without constant financial support from the motherland. In general, Frontenac's policy was as vigor- ous as he could make it. Over commerce, taxes, and religion he had no control. By training and temper he was a war governor, who during his first administration fell upon a time of peace. So long as peace prevailed he lacked the powers and the opportunity to",
         "86 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR enable him to reveal his true strength; and his energy, without sufficient vent, broke forth in quarrels at the council board. With wider authority, Frontenac might have proved a successful governor even in time of peace, for he was very intelligent and had at heart the welfare of the colony. As it was, his restrictions chafed and goaded him until wrathfulness took the place of reason. But we shall err if we conclude that when he left Canada in discomfiture he had not earned her thanks. Through pride and faults of temper he had impaired his usefulness and marred his record. Even so there was that which rescued his work from the stigma of failure. He had guarded his people from the tomahawk and the scalping-knife. With prescient eye he had foreseen the imperial greatness of the West. Whatever his shortcomings, they had not been those of meanness or timidity.",
         "CHAPTER VI THE LURID INTERVAL WE have seen that during Frontenac's first term of office no urgent danger menaced the colony on the frontier. The missionary and the explorer were steadily pressing forward to the head of the Great Lakes and into the valley of the Mississippi, enlarging the sphere of French influence and rendering the interior tributary to the commerce of Quebec. But this peaceful and silent expansion had not passed unnoticed by those in whose minds it aroused both rivalry and dread. Untroubled from without as New France had been under Frontenac, there were always two lurking perils-the Iroquois and the English. The Five Nations owed their leadership among the Indian tribes not only to superior discipline and method but also to their geo- graphical situation. The valley of the St Lawrence lay within easy reach, either through Lake Champlain or Lake Ontario. On the 87",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR east at their very door lay the valley of the Mohawk and the Hudson. From the western fringe of their territory they could advance quickly to Lake Erie, or descend the Ohio into the valley of the Mississippi. It was doubtless due to their prowess rather than to accident that they originally came into posses- sion of this central and favoured position; however, they could now make their force felt throughout the whole north-eastern portion of the continent. Over seventy years had now passed since Champlain's attack upon the Iroquois in 1609 ; but lapse of time had not altered the nature of the savage, nor were the causes of mutual hostility less real than at first. A ferocious lust for war remained the deepest passion of the Iroquois, to be satisfied at convenient intervals. It was unfortunate, in their view, that they could not always be at war ; but they recognized that there must be breathing times and that it was important to choose the right moment for massacre and pillage. Daring but sagacious, they followed an oppor- tunist policy. At times their warriors de- lighted to lurk in the outskirts of Montreal with tomahawk and scalping-knife and to organize great war-parties, such as that 88",
         "THE LURID INTERVAL which was arrested by Dollard and his heroic companions at the Long Sault in 166o. At other times they held fair speech with the governor and permitted the Jesuits to live in their villages, for the French had weapons and means of fighting which inspired respect. The appearance of the Dutch on the Hudson in 1614 was an event of great importance to the Five Nations. The Dutch were quite as ready as the French to trade in furs, and it was thus that the Iroquois first procured the firearms which they used in their raids on the French settlements. That the Iroquois re- joiced at having a European colony on the Hudson may be doubted, but as they were unable to prevent it, they drew what profit they could by putting the French and Dutch in competition, both for their alliance and their neutrality. But, though the Dutch were heretics and rivals, it was a bad day for New France when the English seized New Amsterdam (1664) and began to establish themselves from Manhattan to Albany. The inevitable con- flict was first foreshadowed in the activities of Sir Edmund Andros, which followed his ap- pointment as governor of New York in 1674. He visited the Mohawks in their own villages, 89",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR organized a board of Indian commissioners at Albany, and sought to cement an alliance with the whole confederacy of the Five Nations. In opposition to this France made the formal claim (1677) that by actual residence in the Iroquois country the Jesuits had brought the Iroquois under French sovereignty. Iroquois, French, and English thus formed the points of a political triangle. Home politics, however-the friendship of Stuart and Bourbon-tended to postpone the day of reckoning between the English and French in America. England and France were not only at peace but in alliance. The Treaty of Dover had been signed in 1670, and two years later, just as Frontenac had set out for Quebec, Charles II had sent a force of six thousand English to aid Louis XIV against the Dutch. It was in this war that John Churchill, after- wards Duke of Marlborough, won his spurs- fighting on the French side ! None the less, there were premonitions of trouble in America, especially after Thomas Dongan became governor of New York in 1683. Andros had shown good judgment in his dealings with the Iroquois, and his suc- cessor, inheriting a sound policy, went even further on the same course. Dongan, an 9go",
         "THE LURID INTERVAL Irishman of high birth and a Catholic, strenu- ously opposed the pretensions of the French to sovereignty over the Iroquois. When it was urged that religion required the presence of the Jesuits among them, he denied the allegation, stating that he would provide English priests to take their place. A New England Calvinist could not have shown more firmness in upholding the English position. Indeed, no governor of Puritan New England had ever equalled Dongan in hostility to Catholic New France. Frontenac's successor, Lefebvre de la Barre, who had served with distinction in the West Indies, arrived at Quebec in September 1682. By the same ship came the new intendant, Meulles. They found the Lower Town of Quebec in ruins, for a devastating fire had just swept through it. Hardly anything remained standing save the buildings on the cliff. La Barre and Meulles were soon at logger- heads. It appears that, instead of striving to repair the effects of the fire, the new governor busied himself to accumulate a fortune. He had indeed promised the king that, unlike his predecessors, he would seek no profit from private trading, and had on this ground requested an increase of salary. 91",
         "92 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Meulles presently reported that, far from keeping this promise, La Barre and his agents had shared ten or twelve thousand crowns of profit, and that unless checked the governor's revenues would soon exceed those of the king. Meulles also accuses La Barre of sending home deceitful reports regarding the success of his Indian policy. We need not dwell longer on these reports. They disclose with great clear- ness the opinion of the intendant as to the governor's fitness for his office. La Barre stands condemned not by the in- nuendoes of Meulles, but by his own failure to cope with the Iroquois. The presence of the Dutch and English had stimulated the Five Nations to enlarge their operations in the fur trade and multiply their profits. The French, from being earliest in the field, had established friendly relations with all the tribes to the north of the Great Lakes, including those who dwelt in the valley of the Ottawa; and La Salle and Tonty had recently penetrated to the Mississippi and ex- tended French trade to the country of the Illinois Indians. The furs from this region were being carried up the Mississippi and for- warded to Quebec by the Lakes and the St Lawrence. This brought the Illinois within",
         "THE LURID INTERVAL the circle of tribes commercially dependent on Quebec. At the same time the Iroquois, through the English on the Hudson, now possessed facilities greater than ever for dis- posing of all the furs they could acquire; and they wanted this trade for themselves. The wholesome respect which the Iroquois entertained for Frontenac kept them from attacking the tribes under the protection of the French on the Great Lakes ; but the re- mote Illinois were thought to be a safe prey. During the autumn of i68o a war-party of more than six hundred Iroquois invaded the country of the Illinois. La Salle was then in Montreal, but Tonty met the invaders and did all he could to save the Illinois from their clutches. His efforts were in vain. The Illinois suffered all that had befallen the Hurons in 1649.1 The Iroquois, however, were careful not to harm the French, and to demand from Tonty a letter to show Frontenac as proof that he and his companions had been respected. Obviously this raid was a symptom of danger, and in 1681 Frontenac asked the king to send him five or six hundred troops. A further disturbing incident occurred at the 1 See The Jesuit Missions in this Series, chap. vi. 93",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Jesuit mission of Sault Ste Marie, where an Illinois Indian murdered a Seneca chieftain. That Frontenac intended to act with firmness towards the Iroquois, while giving them satisfaction for the murder of their chief, is clear from his acts in 1681 no less than from his general record. But his forces were small and he had received particular instructions to reduce expenditure. And, with Duchesneau at hand to place a sinister interpretation upon his every act, the conditions were not favour- able for immediate action. Then in 1682 he was recalled. Such, in general, were the conditions which confronted La Barre, and in fairness it must be admitted that they were the most serious thus far in the history of Canada. From the first the Iroquois had been a pest and a menace, but now, with the English to flatter and encourage them, they became a grave peril. The total population of the colony was now about ten thousand, of whom many were women and children. The regular troops were very few ; and, though the disbanded Carignan soldiers furnished the groundwork of a valiant militia, the habitants and their seigneurs alone could not be expected to defend such a territory against such a foe.",
         "THE LURID INTERVAL Above ail else the situation demanded strong leadership ; and this was precisely what La Barre failed to supply. He was preoccupied with the profits of the fur trade, ignorant of Indian character, and past his physical prime; and his policy towards the Iroquois was a con- tinuous series of blunders. Through the great personal influence of Charles Le Moyne the Five Nations were induced, in 1683, to send representatives to Montreal, where La Barre met them and gave them lavish presents. The Iroquois, always good judges of character, did not take long to discover in the new governor a very different Onontio from the imposing personage who had held conference with them at Fort Frontenac ten years earlier. The feebleness of La B.arre's effort to main- tain French sovereignty over the Iroquois is reflected in his request that they should ask his permission before attacking tribes friendly to the French. When he asked them why they had attacked the Illinois, they gave this ominous answer: ' Because they deserved to die.' La Barre could effect nothing by a display of authority, and even with the help of gifts he could only postpone war against the tribes of the Great Lakes. The Iroquois intimated that for the present they would be 95",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR content to finish the destruction of the Illinois-a work which would involve the de- struction of the French posts in the valley of the Mississippi. La Barre's chief purpose was to protect his own interests as a trader, and, so far from wishing to strengthen La Salle's position on the Mississippi, he looked upon that illustrious explorer as a competitor whom it was legitimate to destroy by craft. By an act of poetic justice the Iroquois a few months later plundered a convoy of canoes which La Barre himself had sent out to the Mississippi for trading purposes. The season of 1684 proved even less pros- perous for the French. Not only Dongan was doing his best to make the Iroquois allies of the English; Lord Howard of Effingham, the governor of Virginia, was busy to the same end. For some time past certain tribes of the Five Nations, though not the confederacy as a whole, had been making forays upon the English settlers in Maryland and even in Virginia. To adjust this matter Lord Howard came to Albany in person, held a council which was attended by representatives of all the tribes, and succeeded in effecting a peace. Amid the customary ceremonies the Five Nations buried the hatchet with the English,",
         "THE LURID INTERVAL and stood ready to concentrate their war- parties upon the French. It must not be inferred that by an act of reconciliation these subtle savages threw them- selves into the arms of the English, exchang- ing a new suzerainty for an old. They always did the best they could for their own hand, seeking to play one white man against the other for their own advantage. It was a situation where, on the part of French and English, individual skill and knowledge of Indian character counted for much. On the one hand, Dongan showed great intelligence and activity in making the most of the fact that Albany was nearer to the land of the Five Nations than Quebec, or even Montreal. On the other, the French had envoys who stood high in the esteem of the Iroquois-notably Charles Le Moyne, of Longueuil, and Lamber- ville, the Jesuit missionary. But for the moment the French were heavily burdened by the venality of La Barre, who subordinated public policy to his own gains. We have now to record his most egregious blunder-an attempt to overawe the Iroquois with an insufficient force-an attempt which Meulles declared was a mere piece of acting- not designed for real war on behalf of the colony, F.G., G 97",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR but to assist the governor's private interests as a trader. From whatever side the incident is viewed it illustrates a complete incapacity. On July io, 1684, La Barre left Quebec with a body of two hundred troops. In ascending the river they were reinforced by recruits from the Canadian militia and several hundred Indian allies. After much hardship in the rapids the little army reached Fort Frontenac. Here the sanitary conditions proved bad and many died from malarial fever. Al thought of attack soon vanished, and La Barre altered his plans and decided to invite the Iroquois to a council. The degree of his weakness may be seen from the fact that he began with a concession regarding the place of meeting. An embassy from the Onondagas finally con- descended to meet him, but not at Fort Frontenac. La Barre, with a force such as he could muster, crossed to the south side of Lake Ontario and met the delegates from the Iroquois at La Famine, at the mouth of the Salmon River, not far from the point where Champlain and the Hurons had left their canoes when they had invaded the Onondaga country in 1615. The council which ensued was a ghastly joke. La Barre began his speech by enumer- 98",
         "THE LURID INTERVAL ating the wrongs which the French and their dependent tribes had recently suffered from the Iroquois. Among these he included the raid upon the Illinois, the machinations with the English, and the spoliation of French traders. For offences so heinous satisfaction must be given. Otherwise Onontio would declare a war in which the English would join him. These were brave words, but un- fortunately the Iroquois had excellent reason to believe that the statement regarding the English was untrue, and could see for them- selves the weakness of La Barre's forces. This conference has been picturesquely de- scribed by Baron La Hontan, who was present and records the speeches. The chief orator of the Onondagas was a remarkable person, who either for his eloquence or aspect is called by La Hontan, Grangula, or Big Mouth. Having listened to La Barre's bellicose words and their interpretation, ' he rose, took five or six turns in the ring that the French and the savages formed, and returned to his place. Then standing upright he spoke after the following manner to the General La Barre, who sat in his chair of state : Onontio, I honour you, and all the warriors that accompany me do the same. Your interpreter has 99",
         "'00 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR made an end of his discourse, and now I corne to begin mine. My voice glides to your ear. Pray listen to my words. Onontio, in setting out from Quebec, you must have fancied that the scorching beams of the sun had burnt down the forests which render our country inaccessible to the French ; or else that the inunda- tions of the lake had surrounded our cottages and confined us as prisoners. This certainly was your thought ; and it could be nothing else but the curi- osity of seeing a burnt or drowned country that moved you to undertake a journey hither. But now you have an opportunity of being undeceived, for I and my warriors come to assure you that the Senecas, Cayugas, Onondagas, Oneidas, and Mohawks are not yet destroyed. I return you thanks in their name for bringing into their country the calumet of peace, which your predecessor received from their hands. At the same time I congratulate you on having left under ground the tomahawk which has so often been dyed with the blood of the French. I must tell you, Onontio, that I am not asleep. My eyes are open, and the sun which vouchsafes the light gives me a clear view of a great captain at the head of a troop of soldiers, who speaks as if he were asleep. He pretends that he does not approach this lake with any other view than to smoke the calumet with the Onondagas. But Grangula knows better. He sees plainly that Onontio meant to knock them on the head if the French arms had not been so much weakened. . . . You must know, Onontio, that we have robbed no",
         "THE LURID INTERVAL Frenchman, save those who supplied the Illinois and the Miamis (our enemies) with muskets, powder, and ball. . . . We have conducted the English to our lakes in order to trade with the Ottawas and the Hurons ; just as the Algonquins conducted the French to our five cantons, in order to carry on a commerce that the English lay claim to as their right. We are born freemen and have no depend- ence either upon the Onontio or the Corlaer [the English governor]. We have power to go where we please, to conduct whom we will to the places we resort to, and to buy and sell where we think fit. . . . We fell upon the Illinois and the Miamis because they cut down the trees of peace that served for boundaries and came to hunt beavers upon our lands. . . . We have done less than the English and French, who without any right have usurped the lands they are now possessed of. I give you to know, Onontio, that my voice is the voice of the five Iroquois cantons. This is their answer. Pray incline your ear and listen to what they represent. The Senecas, Cayugas, Onondagas, Oneidas, and Mohawks declare that they buried the tomahawk in the presence of your predecessor, in the very centre of the fort, and planted the Tree of Peace in the same place. It was then stipulated that the fort should be used as a place of retreat for merchants and not a refuge for soldiers. Be it known to you, Onontio, that so great a number of soldiers, being shut up in so small a fort, do not stifle and choke the Tree of Peace. Since it took root so easily it would be evil 101",
         "102 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR to stop its growth and hinder it from shading both your country and ours with its leaves. I assure you, in the name of the five nations, that our warriors will dance the calumet dance under its branches and will never dig up the axe to cut it down-till such time as the Onontio and the Corlaer do separately or together invade the country which the Great Spirit gave to our ancestors.' 1 When Le Moyne and the Jesuits had in- terpreted this speech La Barre 'retired to his tent and stormed and blustered.' But Grangula favoured the spectators with an Iroquois dance, after which he entertained several of the Frenchmen at a banquet. ' Two days later,' writes La Hontan, ' he and his warriors returned to their own country, and our army set out for Montreal. As soon as the General was on board, together with the few healthy men that remained, the canoes were dispersed, for the militia straggled here and there, and every one made the best of his way home.' With this ignominious adventure the career of La Barre ends. The reports which Meulles sent to France produced a speedy effect in i Grangula's speech is an example in part of Indian eloquence, and in part of the eloquence of Baron La Hontan, who contri- butes many striking passages to our knowledge of Frontenac's period.",
         "THE LURID INTERVAL securing his dismissal from office. ' I have been informed,' politely writes the king, ' that your years do not permit you to support the fatigues inseparable from your office of governor and lieutenant-general in Canada.' La Barre's successor, the Marquis de Denon- ville, arrived at Quebec in August 1685. Like La Barre, he was a soldier; like Frontenac, he was an aristocrat as well. From both these predecessors, however, he differed in being free from the reproach of using his office to secure personal profits through the fur trade. No governor in all the annals of New France was on better terms with the bishop and the Jesuits. He possessed great bravery. There is much to show that he was energetic. None the less he failed, and his failure was more glaring than that of La Barre. He could not hold his ground against the Iroquois and the English. It has been pointed out already that when La Barre assumed office the problems arising from these two sources were more difficult than at any previous date; but the situation which was serious in 1682 and had become critical by 1685 grew desperate in the .four years of Denonville's sway. The one over- 103",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR shadowing question of this period was the Iroquois peril, rendered more and more acute by the policy of the English. The greatest mistake which Denonville made in his dealings with the Iroquois was to act deceitfully. The savages could be per- fidious themselves, but they were not without a conception of honour and felt genuine re- spect for a white man whose word they could trust. Denonville, who in his private life displayed many virtues, seemed to consider that he was justified in acting towards the savages as the exigency of the moment prompted. Apart from all considerations of morality this was bad judgment. In his dealings with the English Denonville had little more success than in his dealings with the Indians. Dongan was a thorn in his side from the first, although their corre- spondence opened, on both sides, with the language of compliment. A few months later its tone changed, particularly after Dongan heard that Denonville intended to build a fort at Niagara. Against a project so unfriendly Dongan protested with emphasis. In reply Denonville disclaimed the intention, at the same time alleging that Dongan was giving shelter at Albany to French deserters. A 104",
         "THE LURID INTERVAL little later they reach the point of sarcasm. Denonville taxes Dongan with selling rum to the Indians. Dongan retorts that at least English rum is less unwholesome than French brandy. Beneath these epistolary compli- ments there lies the broad fact that Dongan stood firm by his principle that the extension of French rule to the south of Lake Ontario should not be tolerated. He ridicules the basis of French pretensions, saying that Denonville might as well claim China because there are Jesuits at the Chinese court. The French, he adds, have no more right to the country because its streams flow into Lake Ontario than they have to the lands of those who drink claret or brandy. It is clear that Dongan fretted under the restrictions which were imposed upon him by the friendship between England and France. He would have welcomed an order to support his arguments by force. Denonville, on his side, with like feelings, could not give up the claim to suzerainty over the land of the Iroauois. The domain of the Five Nations was not the only part of America where French and English clashed. The presence of the English in Hudson Bay, excited deep resentment at 1o5",
         "1o6 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Quebec and Montreal. Here Denonville ven- tured to break the peace as Dongan had not dared to do. With Denonville's consent and approval, a band of Canadians left Montreal in the spring of 1686, fell upon three of the English posts-Fort Hayes, Fort Rupert, Fort Albany - and with some bloodshed dispossessed their garrisons. Well satisfied with this exploit, Denonville in 1687 turned his attention to the chastisement of the Iroquois. The forces which he brought together for this task were greatly superior to any that had been mustered in Canada before. Not only were they adequate in numbers, but they comprised an important band of coureurs de bois, headed by La Durantaye, Tonty, Du Lhut, and Nicolas Perrot-men who equalled the Indians in woodcraft and surpassed them in character. The epitaph of Denonville as a governor is written in the failure of this great expedition to accomplish its purpose. The first blunder occurred at Fort Fron- tenac before mobilization had been completed. There were on the north shore of Lake Ontario two Iroquois villages, whose inhabitants had been in part baptized by the Sulpicians and",
         "THE LURID INTERVAL were on excellent terms with the garrison of the fort. In a moment of insane stupidity Denonville decided that the men of these settlements should be captured and sent to France as galley slaves. Through the ruse of a banquet they were brought together and easily seized. By dint of a little further effort two hundred Iroquois of all ages and both sexes were collected at Fort Frontenac as prisoners-and some at least perished by torture. But, when executing this dastardly plot, Denonville did not succeed in catching all the friendly Iroquois who lived in the neighbourhood of his fort. Enough escaped to carry the authentic tale to the Five Nations, and after that there could be no peace till there had been revenge. Worst of all, the French stood convicted of treachery and falseness. Having thus blighted his cause at the out- set, Denonville proceeded with his more serious task of smiting the Iroquois in their own country. Considering the extent and expense of his preparations, he should have planned a complete destruction of their power. Instead of this he attempted no more than an attack upon the Senecas, whose operations against the Illinois and in other quarters had made 107",
         "io8 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR them especially objectionable. The com- posite army of French and Indians assembled at Irondequoit Bay on July i2-a force brought together at infinite pains and under circumstances which might never occur again. Marching southwards they fought a trivial battle with the Senecas, in which half a dozen on the French side were killed, while the Senecas are said to have lost about a hundred in killed and wounded. The rest of the tribe took to the woods. As a result of this easy victory the triumphant allies destroyed an Iroquois village and all the corn which it contained, but the political results of the ex- pedition were worse than nothing. Denon- ville made no attempt to destroy the other nations of the confederacy. Returning to Lake Ontario he built a fort at Niagara, which he had promised Dongan he would not do, and then returned to Montreal. The net re- sults of this portentous effort were a broken promise to the English, an act of perfidy towards the Iroquois, and an insignificant success in battle. In 1688 Denonville's decision to abandon Fort Niagara slightly changed the situation. The garrison had suffered severe losses through illness and the post proved too remote for",
         "THE LURID INTERVAL successful defence. So this matter settled itself. The same season saw the recall of Dongan through the consolidation of New England, New York, and New Jersey under Sir Edmund Andros. But in essentials there was no change. Andros continued Dongan's policy, of which, in fact, he himself had been the author. And, even though no longer threatened by the French from Niagara, the savages had reason enough to hate and distrust Denonville. Yet despite these untoward circumstances all hope of peace between the French and the Five Nations had not been destroyed. The Iroquois loved their revenge and were willing to wait for it, but caution warned them that it would not be advantageous to destroy the French for the benefit of the English. More- over, in the long course of their relations with the French they had, as already mentioned, formed a high opinion of men like Le Moyne and Lamberville, while they viewed with respect the exploits of Tonty, La Durantaye, and Du Lhut. Moved by these considerations and a love of presents, Grangula, of the Onondagas, was in the midst of negotiations for peace with the French, which might have ended happily but iog",
         "izo THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR for the stratagem of the Huron chief Kon- diaronk, called 'The Rat.' The remnant of Hurons and the other tribes centring at Michilimackinac did not desire a peace of the French and Iroquois which would not include themselves, for this would mean their own certain destruction. The Iroquois, freed of the French, would surely fall on the Hurons. All the Indians distrusted Denonville, and Kondiaronk suspected, with good reason, that the Hurons were about to be sacrificed. Denonville, however, had assured Kondiaronk that there was to be war to the death against the Iroquois, and on this understanding he went with a band of warriors to Fort Fron- tenac. There he learned that peace would be concluded between Onontio and the Onon- dagas-in other words, that the Iroquois would soon be free to attack the Hurons and their allies. To avert this threatened de- struction of his own people, he set out with his warriors and lay in ambush for a party of Onondaga chiefs who were on their way to Montreal. Having killed one and captured almost all the rest, he announced to his Iroquois prisoners that he had received orders from Denonville to destroy them. When they explained that they were ambassadors, he",
         "THE LURID INTERVAL feigned surprise and said he could no longer be an accomplice to the wickedness of the French. Then he released them all save one, in order that they might carry home this tale of Denonville's second treachery. The one Iroquois Kondiaronk retained on the plea that he wished to adopt him. Arrived at Michilimackinac, he handed over the captive to the French there, who, having heard nothing of the peace, promptly shot him. An Iroquois prisoner, whom Kondiaronk secretly released for the purpose, conveyed to the Five Nations word of this further atrocity. The Iroquois prepared to deliver a hard blow. On August 5, 1689, they fell in over- whelming force upon the French settlement at Lachine. Those who died by the tomahawk were the most fortunate. Charlevoix gives the number of victims at two hundred killed and one hundred and twenty taken prisoner. Girouard's examination of parish registers results in a lower estimate-namely, twenty- four killed at Lachine and forty-two at La Chesnaye, a short time afterwards. What- ever the number, it was the most dread- ful catastrophe which the colony had yet suffered. III",
         "112 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Such were the events which, in seven years, had brought New France to the brink of ruin. But she was not to perish from the Iroquois. In October 1689 Frontenac returned to take Denonville's place.",
         "CHAPTER VII THE GREAT STRUGGLE DURING the period which separates his two terms of office Frontenac's life is almost a blank. His relations with his wife seem to have been amicable, but they did not live together. His great friend was the Maréchal de Bellefonds, from whom he received many favours of hospitality. In 1685 the king gave him a pension of thirty-five hundred livres, though without assigning him any post of dignity. Already a veteran, his record could hardly be called successful. His merits were known to the people of Canada ; they be- lieved him to be a tower of strength against the Iroquois. At Versailles the fact stood out most plainly that through infirmities of temper he had lost his post. His pension might save him from penury. It was far too small to give him real independence. Had either 'La Barre or Denonville proved equal to the government of Canada, it is almost F,G,",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR certain that Frontenac would have ended his days ingloriously at Versailles, ascending the stairs of others with all the grief which is the portion of disappointed old age. Their failure was his opportunity, and from the dreary antechambers of a court he mounts to sudden glory as the saviour of New France. There is some doubt, as we have seen, con- cerning the causes which gave Frontenac his appointment in 1672. At that time court favour may have operated on his behalf, or it may have seemed desirable that he should reside for a season out of France. But in 1689 graver considerations came into play. At the moment when the Iroquois were preparing to ravage Canada, the expulsion of James II from his throne had broken the peace between France and England. The government of New France was now no post for a court favourite. Louis XIV had expended much money and effort on the colony. Through the mismanagement of La Barre and Denon- ville everything appeared to be on the verge of ruin. It is inconceivable that Frontenac, then in his seventieth year, should have been renominated for any other cause than merit. Times and conditions had changed. The task now was not to work peaceably with bishop 114",
         "THE GREAT STRUGGLE and intendant, but to destroy the foe. Father Goyer, the Récollet who delivered Frontenac's funeral oration, states that the king said when renewing his commission: ' I send you back to Canada, where I expect you will serve me as well as you did before ; I ask for nothing more.' This is a bit of too gorgeous rhetoric, which none the less conveys the truth. The king was not reappointing Frontenac because he was, on the whole, satisfied with what he had done before; he was reappointing him because during his former term of office and throughout his career he had displayed the qualities which were called for at the present crisis. Thus Frontenac returned to Quebec in the autumn of 1689, just after the Iroquois massacred the people of Lachine and just before they descended upon those of La Chesnaye. The universal mood was one of terror and despair. If ever Canada needed a Moses this was the hour. It will be seen from the dates that Denon- ville's recall was not due to the Lachine massacre and the other raids of the Iroquois in 1689, for these only occurred after Fron. tenac had been appointed. Denonville's dis- missal was justified by the general results of 115",
         "116 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR his administration down to the close of 1688. Before Frontenac left France a plan of cam- paign had been agreed upon which it was now his duty to execute. The outlines of this plan were suggested by Callières, the governor of Montreal,' who had been sent home by Denon- ville to expound the needs of the colony in person and to ask for fresh aid. The idea was to wage vigorous offensive warfare against the English from Albany to New York. Success would depend upon swiftness and audacity, both of which Frontenac possessed in full measure, despite his years. Two French warships were to be sent direct to New York in the autumn of 1689, while a raiding party from Canada should set out for the Hudson as soon as Frontenac could organize it. In its original form this plan of campaign was never carried out, for on account of head winds Frontenac reached Quebec too late in the autumn. However, the central idea re- mained in full view and suggested the three war-parties which were sent out during the winter of 1690 to attack the English colonies. \" Louis Hector de Callières-Bonnevue was a captain of the French army who became governor of Montreal in 1684, and succeeded Frontenac as governor of Canada in 1698. He re- ceived the Cross of St Louis for distinguished service against the Iroquois. Frontenac could not have had a better lieutenant.",
         "THE GREAT STRUGGLE Louis XIV had given Denonville important reinforcements, and with war clouds gathering in Europe he was unwilling or unable to de- tach more troops for the defence of Canada. Hence, in warring against the Iroquois and the English Frontenac had no greater resources than those at the disposal of Denonville when he attacked the Senecas. In fact, since 1687 there had been some wastage in the number of the regulars from disease. The result was that Frontenac could not hope for any solid success unless he received support from the Canadian militia. In this crisis the habitants and their seigneurs accepted with courage the duties laid upon them. In the narrower sense they were fighting for their homes, but the spirit which they displayed under Frontenac's leadership is not merely that which one associates with a war of defence. The French soldier, in all ages, loved to strike the quick, sharp blow, and it was now necessary for the salvation of Canada that it should be struck. The Iroquois had come to believe that Onontio was losing his power. The English colonies were far more populous than New France. In short, the only hope lay in a swift, spec- tacular campaign which would disorganize 317",
         "1z8 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR the English and regain the respect of the Iroquois. The issue depended on the courage and capacity of the Canadians. It is to their honour and to the credit of Frontenac that they rose to the demand of the hour. The Canadians were a robust, prolific race, trained from infancy to woodcraft and all the hard- ships of the wilderness. Many families con- tained from eight to fourteen sons who had used the musket and paddle from early boy- hood, and could endure the long tramps of winter like the Indians themselves. The frontiersman is, and must be, a fighter, but nowhere in the past can one find a braver breed of warriors thah mustered to the call of Frontenac. François Hertel and Hertel de Rouville, Le Moyne d'Iberville with his brothers Bienville and Sainte-Hélène, D'Aille- bout de Mantet and Repentigny de Montesson, are but a few representatives of the militiamen who sped forth at the call of Frontenac to destroy the settlements of the English. What followed was war in its worst form, including the massacre of women and children. The three bands organized by Frontenac at the beginning of 1690 set out on snowshoes from Montreal, Three Rivers, and Quebec.",
         "PIERRE LE MOYNE, SIEUR IYIBERVILLE Fromn an engraving in the Join Ross Rl\u003eertson Collectio, Toronto Public Librarv",
         "THE GREAT STRUGGLE The largest party contained a hundred and fourteen French and ninety-six Indians. It marched from Montreal against Schenectady, commanded by D'Aillebout de Mantet and Le Moyne de Sainte-Hélène. The second party, proceeding from Three Rivers and numbering twenty-six French and twenty-nine Indians under the command of François Hertel, aimed at Dover, Pemaquid, and other settlements of Maine and New Hampshire. The Quebec party, under Portneuf, comprised fifty French and sixty Indians. Its objective was the English colony on Casco Bay, where the city of Portland now stands. All three were suc- cessful in accomplishing what they aimed at, namely the destruction of English settle- ments amid fire and carnage. Al three em- ployed Indians, who were suffered, either willingly or unwillingly, to commit bar- barities. It is much more the business of history to explain than to condemn or to extenuate. How could a man like François Hertel lead one of these raids without sinking to the moral level of his Indian followers ? Some such question may, not unnaturally, rise to the lips of a modern reader who for the first time comes upon the story of Dover and Salmon 119",
         "z2o THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Falls. But fuller knowledge breeds respect for François Hertel. When eighteen years old he was captured by the Mohawks and put to the torture. One of his fingers they burned off in the bowl of a pipe. The thumb of the other hand they cut off. In the letter which he wrote on birch-bark to his mother af ter this dreadful experience there is not a word of his sufferings. He simply sends her his love and asks for her prayers, signing him- self by his childish nickname, ' Your poor Fanchon.' As he grew up he won from an admiring community the name of 'The Hero.' He was not only brave but religious. In his view it was all legitimate warfare. If he slew others, he ran a thousand risks and en- dured terrible privations for his king and the home he was defending. His stand at the bridge over the Wooster river, sword in hand, when pressed on his retreat by an overwhelm- ing force of English, holding the pass till all his men are over, is worthy of an epic. He was forty-seven years old at the time. The three eldest of his nine sons were with him in that little band of twenty-six Frenchmen, and two of his nephews. ' To the New England of old,' says Parkman, ' François Hertel was the abhorred chief of Popish",
         "THE GREAT STRUGGLE malignants and murdering savages. The New England of to-day will be more just to the brave defender of his country and his faith.' The atrocities committed by the French and Indians are enough to make one shudder even at this distance of time. As Frontenac adopted the plan and sent forth the war- parties, the moral responsibility in large part rests with him. There are, however, some facts to consider before judgment is passed as to the degree of his culpability. The modern distinction between combatants and non-combatants had little meaning in the wilds of America at this period. When France and England were at open war, every settler was a soldier, and as such each man's duty was to keep on his guard. If caught napping he must take the consequences. Thus, to fall upon an unsuspecting hamlet and slay its men-folk with the tomahawk, while brutal, was hardly more brutal than under such cir- cumstances we could fairly expect war to be. The massacre of women and children is another matter, not to be excused on any grounds, even though Schenectady and Salmon Falls are paralleled by recent acts of the Germans in Belgium. StilI, we should not f orget that European warfare in the age of 1zz",
         "122 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Frontenac abounded with just such atrocities as were committed at Schenectady, Dover, Pemaquid, Salmon Falls, and Casco Bay. The sack of Magdeburg, the wasting of the Palatinate, and, perhaps, the storming of Drogheda will match whatever was done by the Indian allies of Frontenac. These were unspeakable, but the savage was little worse than his European contemporary. Those killed were in almost all cases killed outright, and the slaughter was not indiscriminate. At Schenectady John Sander Glen, with his whole family and all his relations, were spared because he and his wife had shown kindness to French prisoners taken by the Mohawks. Altogether sixty people were killed at Sche- nectady (February 9, 169o), thirty-eight men, ten women, and twelve children. Nearly ninety were carried captive to Canada. Sixty old men, women, and children were left un- harmed. It is not worth while to take up the details of the other raids. They were of much the same sort-no better and no worse. Where a garrison surrendered under promise that it would be spared, the promise was observed so far as the Indians could be con- trolled; but English and French alike when they used Indian allies knew well that their",
         "THE GREAT STRUGGLE excesses could not be prevented, though they might be moderated. The captives as a rule were treated with kindness and clemency when once the northward march was at an end. Meanwhile, Frontenac had little time to reflect upon the probable attitude of posterity towards his political morals. The three war- parties had accomplished their purpose and in the spring of 1690 the colony was aglow with fresh hope. But the English were not slow to retaliate. That summer New York and Massachusetts decided on an invasion of Canada. It was planned that a fleet from Boston under Sir William Phips should attack Quebec, while a force of militia from New York in command of John Schuyler should advance through Lake Champlain against Montreal. Thus by sea and land Canada soon found herself on the defensive. Of Schuyler's raid nothing need be said except that he reached Laprairie, opposite Montreal, where he killed a few men and de. stroyed the crops (August 23, z69o). It was a small achievement and produced no result save the disappointment of New York that an undertaking upon which much money and effort had been expended should terminate so ingloriously. But the siege of Quebec by 123",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Phips, though it likewise ended in failure, is a much more famous event, and deserves to be described in some detail. The colony of Massachusetts mustered its forces for a great and unusual exploit. Earlier in the same year a raid upon the coasts of Acadia had yielded gratifying results. The surrender of Port Royal without resistance (May i i, 1690) kindled the Puritan hope that a single summer might see the pestiferous Romanists of New France driven from all their strongholds. Thus encouraged, Boston put forth its best energies and did not shrink from incurring a debt of £5o,ooo, which in the circumstances of Massachusetts was an enor- mous sum. Help was expected from England, but none came, and the fleet sailed without it, in full confidence that Quebec would fall before the assault of the colonists alone. The fleet, which sailed in August, num- bered thirty-four ships, carrying twenty-three hundred men and a considerable equipment. Sir William Phips, the leader of the expedition, was not an Englishman by birth, but a New Englander of very humble origin who owed his advancement to a robust physique and un- limited assurance. He was unfitted for his command, both because he lacked experience 124",
         "THE GREAT STRUGGLE in fighting such foes as he was about to encounter, and because he was completely ignorant of the technical difficulties involved in conducting a large, miscellaneous fleet through the tortuous channels of the lower St Lawrence. This ignorance resulted in such loss of time that he arrived before Quebec amid the tokens of approaching winter. It was the i6th of October when he rounded the island of Orleans and brought his ships to anchor under the citadel. Victory could only be secured by sudden success. The state of the season forbade siege operations which con- templated starvation of the garrison. Hopeful that the mere sight of his armada would compel surrender, Phips first sent an envoy to Frontenac under protection of the white flag. This messenger after being blind- folded was led to the Château and brought before the governor, who had staged for his reception one of the impressive spectacles he loved to prepare. Surrounding Frontenac, as Louis XIV might have been surrounded by the grandees of France, were grouped the aristocracy of New France-the officers of the French regulars and the Canadian militia. Nothing had been omitted which could create an impression of dignity and strength. 12,5",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Costume, demeanour, and display were all employed to overwhelm the envoy with the insulted majesty of the king of France. Led into this high presence the messenger delivered his letter, which, when duly interpreted, was found to convey a summary ultimatum. Phips began by stating that the war between France and England would have amply warranted this expedition even ' without the destruction made by the French and Indians, under your command and encouragement, upon the persons and estates of their Majesties' subjects of New England, without provocation on their part.' Indeed, ' the cruelties and barbarities used against them by the French and Indians might, upon the present oppor- tunity, prompt unto a severe revenge.' But seeking to avoid all inhumane and unchristian- like actions, Phips announces that he will be content with ' a present surrender of your forts and castles, undemolished, and the King's and other stores, unimbezzled, with a season- able delivery of all captives ; together with a surrender of all your persons and estates to my dispose ; upon the doing whereof, you may expect mercy from me, as a Christian, accord- ing to what shall be found for their Majesties' service and the subjects' security. Which, 126",
         "THE GREAT STRUGGLE if you refuse forthwith to do, I am come pro- vided and am resolved, by the help of God in whom I trust, by force of arms to revenge all wrongs and injuries offered, and bring you under subjection to the Crown of England, and, when too late, make you wish you had accepted of the favour tendered. Your answer positive in an hour, returned by your own trumpet, with the return of mine, is required upon the peril that will ensue.' To this challenge Frontenac at once re- turned the answer which comported with his character. When Phips's envoy took out his watch to register the hour permitted by the ultimatum, Frontenac rejoined that he required no time for deliberation, but would return his answer by the mouth of the cannon. The ground which he assigned for the invasion of New England was that its people had re- belled against their lawful prince, the ally of France. Other more personal observations were directed towards the manner in which Phips had behaved at Port Royal. No word in writing would Frontenac send. The envoy (who was only a subaltern) received his congé, was blindfolded and led back to his boat. Compliments having been thus exchanged, it remained for Phips to make good his chal- 127",
         "128 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR lenge. If we compare the four English and American sieges of Quebec, the attack by Phips will be seen to have little in common with those of Kirke and Montgomery, but to resemble rather strikingly the attack by Wolfe. Without fighting, Kirke swooped down upon a garrison which was exhausted by starvation. Arnold and Montgomery operated without a fleet. But while Phips's attempt is unlike Wolfe's in that it ended in failure, the presence of the fleet and the attempt to effect a landing below the mouth of the St Charles present features of real similarity. It is clear that Phips received intelligence from prisoners of a possible landing above the town, at the spot where Wolfe carried out his daring and desper- ate coup de main. But, anticipating Wolfe in another quarter, he chose to make his first attack on the flats rather than on the heights. The troops ordinarily stationed at Quebec were increased just after Phips's arrival by a force of seven hundred regulars and militia- men under Callières, who had come down from Montreal with all possible haste. So agile were the French and so proficient in irregular warfare that Phips found it difficult to land any considerable detachment in good order. Thirteen hundred of the English did succeed",
         "THE GREAT STRUGGLE in forming on the Beauport Flats, after wading through a long stretch of mud. There fol- lowed a preliminary skirmish in which three hundred French were driven back with no great loss, after inflicting considerable damage on the invaders. But though the English reached the east bank of the St Charles they could do no more. Phips wasted his ammuni- tion on a fruitless and ill-timed bombardment, which was answered with much spirit from the cliffs. Meanwhile the musketeers on the bank of the St Charles were unable to advance alone and received no proper supply of stores from the ships. Harassed by the Canadians, wet, cold, and starving, they took to the boats, leaving behind them five cannon. After this nothing happened, save deliberations on the part of Phips and his officers as to whether there remained anything that could be done other than to sail for home, beaten and humiliated, with a heavy burden of debt to hang round the neck of a too ambitious Massachusetts. Thus ended the second siege of Quebec (October 23, 1690). Frontenac had lost two of his best soldiers- Sainte-Hélène, of the fighting Le Moynes, and the Chevalier de Clermont ; but, this notwith- standing,- the victory was felt to be complete. F.G. I 129",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR The most precious trophy was the flag of Phips's ship, which a shot from the ramparts had knocked into the river, whence it was rescued and brought ashore in triumph. Best of all, the siege had been too short to bring famine in its train. The loss of life was in- considerable, and in prestige the soldiery of New France now stood on a pinnacle which they had never before attained. When we consider the paucity of the forces engaged, this repulse of the English from Quebec may not seem an imposing military achievement. But Canada had put forth her whole strength and had succeeded where failure would have been fatal. In the shouts of rejoicing which fol- lowed Phips's withdrawal we hear the cry of a people reborn. The siege of Quebec and Schuyler's raid on Laprairie open up a subject of large and vital moment-the historical antagonism of New France and New England. Whoever wishes to understand the deeper problems of Canada in the age of Frontenac should read John Fiske's volumes on the English colonies. In the rise of Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, New York, Connecticut, and Massachusetts one sees the certain doom which was impend- 130",
         "THE GREAT STRUGGLE ing over New France. It may be too much to say that Richelieu by conquering Alsace threw away America. Even had the popula- tion of Canada been increased to the extent called for by the obligations of Richelieu's company in 1627, the English might have nevertheless prevailed. But the preoccupa- tion of France with the war against Austria prevented her from giving due attention to the colonial question at the critical moment when colonists should have been sent out in large numbers. And it is certain that by nothing short of a great emigration could France have saved Canada. As it was, the English were bound to prevail by weight of population. When the conflict reached its climax in the days of Montcalm and Wolfe, two and a half million English Americans confronted sixty- five thousand French Canadians. On such terms the result of the contest could not be doubtful. Even in Frontenac's time the French were protected chiefly by the interven- ing wilderness and the need of the English colonists to develop their own immediate re- sources. The English were not yet ready for a serious offensive war. In fact they, too, had their own Indian question. It is a matter of some interest to observe 131",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR how the conquest of Canada was postponed by the lack of cohesion among the English colonies. Selfishness and mutual jealousy prevented them from combining against the common foe. Save for this disunion and fancied conflict of interest, New France must have succumbed long before the time of Mont- calm. But the vital significance of the con- flict between New England and New France lies in the contrast of their spirit and institu- tions. The English race has extended itself through the world because it possessed the genius of emigration. The French colonist did his work magnificently in the new home. But the conditions in the old home were un- favourable to emigration. The Huguenots, the one class of the population with a strong motive for emigrating, were excluded from Canada in the interest of orthodoxy. The dangers of the Atlantic and the hardships of life in a wintry wilderness might well deter the ordinary French peasant; moreover, it by no means rested with him to say whether he would go or stay. But, whatever their nature, the French race lost a wonderful opportunity through the causes which pre- vented a healthy, steady exodus to America. England profited by having classes of people 132",
         "THE GREAT STRUGGLE sufficiently well educated to form independent opinions and strong enough to carry out the programme dictated by these opinions. While each of the English colonies sprang from a different motive, all had in common the purpose to form an effective settlement. The fur trade did France more harm than good. It deflected her attention from the middle to the northern latitudes and lured her colonists from the land in search of quick profits. It was the enemy to the home. On the other hand, the English came to America primarily in search of a home. Profits they sought, like other people, but they sought them chiefly from the soil. Thus English ideas took root in America, gained new vitality, and assumed an import- ance they had not possessed in England for many centuries. And, while for the moment the organization of the English colonies was not well suited to offensive war, as we may judge from the abortive efforts of Phips and Schuyler, this defect could be corrected. Arising, as it did arise, from a lack of unity among the colonies, it was even indicative of latent strength. From one angle, localism seems selfishness and weakness ; from another, it shows Ihe vigorous life of separate com- 133",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR munities, each self-centred and jealous of its authority because the local instinct is so vitally active. It only needed time to broaden the outlook and give the English colonies a sense of their common interest. Virginia, New York, and Massachusetts, by striking their roots each year more deeply into the soil of America, became more and more self-support- ing states in everything save name and political allegiance ; while New France, which with its austere climate would have developed more slowly in any case, remained dependent on the king's court. Thus Frontenac's task was quite hopeless, if we define it as the effort to overthrow English power in America. But neither he nor any one of that age defined his duties so widely. In 1689 Canada was in extremes, with the Iroquois at Lachine and Dongan threatening an attack from New York. Fron- tenac's policy was defensive. If he struck first, it was because he considered audacity to be his best safeguard. No one knew better than Frontenac that a successful raid does not mean conquest. 134",
         "CHAPTER VIII FRONTENAC'S LAST DAYS THOUGH the English might withdraw from Quebec, New France always had the Iroquois with her. We must now pursue the thread of Frontenac's dealings with the savages from the moment when he replaced Denonville. It requires no flight of the imagination to appreciate the rage Frontenac must have felt when, on returning to Canada, he saw before his eyes the effects of La Barre's rapacity and Denonville's perfidy, of which the massacres of Lachine and La Chesnaye furnished the most ghastly proofs. But in these two cases the element of tragedy was so strong as to efface the mood of exasperation. There re- mained a third incident which must have pro- voked pure rage. This was the destruction of Fort Frontenac, blown up, at Denonville's order, by the French themselves (October 1689). The erection and maintenance of this post hactbeen a cardinal point in Frontenac's 135",
         "136 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Indian policy; and, more particularly to aggravate the offence, there was the humili- ating fact that Denonville had ordered it demolished to comply with a demand from the Iroquois. This shameful concession had been made shortly before Frontenac reached Canada.. It was Denonville's last important act in the colony. On the chance that something might have occurred to delay execution of the order, Frontenac at once countermanded it and sent forward an ex- pedition of three hundred men. But they were too late. His beloved fortress was gone. The only comfort which Frontenac could derive frorn the incident was that the work of destruction had been carried out imper- fectly. There remained a portion of the works which could still be used. Thus with regard to the Iroquois the situa- tion was far worse in 1689 than it had been when Frontenac came to Canada in 1672. Everything which he had done to conciliate the Five Nations had been undone; and Dongan's intelligent activities, coinciding with this long series of French mistakes, had helped to make matters worse. Nor was it now merely a question of the Iroquois. The whole Indian world had been convulsed by the re-",
         "FRONTENAC'S LAST DAYS newal of strife between Onontio and the Five Nations. Tribes long friendly to the French and in constant trade with them were being alienated. The Indian problem as Frontenac saw it in 1690 resolved itself to this: either peace with the Iroquois on terms which would prove impressive to the Hurons, the Ottawas, and even to the savages of the Mississippi; or else uncompromising war. For under no cir- cumstances could the French afford to lose their hold upon the tribes from whom they derived their furs. Obviously an honourable peace would be preferable to the horrors of a forest war, and Frontenac did his best to secure it. To undo, as far as possible, Denonville's treachery at Fort Frontenac and elsewhere, he had brought back with him to Quebec the Iroquois who had been sent to France-or such of them as were still alive. First among these was a Cayuga chief of great influence named Oure- haoué, whose friendship Frontenac assiduously cultivated and completely won. Towards the close of January 1690 an embassy of three re- leased Iroquois carried to Onondaga a message from Ourehaoué that the real Onontio had re- turned and peace must be made with him if the Five Nations wished to live. A great 137",
         "138 THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR council was then held at which the English, by invitation, were represented, while the French interest found its spokesman in a Christian Iroquois named Cut Nose. Any chance of success was destroyed by the im- placable enmity of the Senecas, who remem- bered the attempt of the French to check their raids upon the Illinois and the invasion of their own country by Denonville. Cannehoot, a Seneca chieftain, rose and stated that the tribes of Michilimackinac were ready to join the English and the Iroquois for the destruc- tion of New France ; and the assembly decided to enter this triple alliance. Frontenac's envoys returned to Quebec alive, but with nothing to show for their pains. A later effort by Frontenac was even less successful. The Iroquois, it was clear, could not be brought back to friendship by fair words. War to the knife being inevitable, Fron- tenac promptly took steps to confirm his position with the hitherto friendly savages of the Ottawa and the Great Lakes. When Cannehoot had said that the tribes of Michili- mackinac were ready to turn against the French, he was not drawing wholly upon his imagination. This statement was confirmed by the report of Nicolas Perrot, who knew the",
         "FRONTENAC'S LAST DAYS Indians of the West as no one else knew them -save perhaps Du Lhut and Carheil.1 The French were now playing a desperate game in the vast region beyond Lake Erie, which they had been the first of Europeans to ex- plore. The Ottawas and the Hurons, while alike the hereditary foes of the Iroquois, were filled with mutual jealousy which must be composed. The successes of the Iroquois in their raids on the French settlements must be explained and minimized. ' The Rat ' Kondia- ronk, the cleverest of the western chieftains, must be conciliated. And to compass all these ends, Perrot found his reliance in the word that Frontenac had returned and would lead his children against the common foe. Meanwhile, the Iroquois had their own advo- cates among the more timid and suspicious members of these western tribes. During the winter of 1689-90 the French and the Iroquois had about an even chance of winning the 1 Étienne de Carheil was the most active of the Jesuit mission- aries in Canada during the period of Frontenac. After fifteen years among the Iroquois at Cayuga (1668-83) he returned for three years to Quebec. He was then sent to Michilimackinac, where he remained another fifteen years. Shortly after the founding of Detroit (1701) he gave up life in the forest. Despite the great hardships which he endured, he lived to be ninety- three. None pf the missionaries was more strongly opposed to the brandy trade. 139",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Indians who centred at Michilimackinac. But the odds were against the French to this ex- tent-they were working against a time limit. Unless Frontenac could quickly show evidence of strength, the tribes of the West would range with the Iroquois. In the spring of 1690 Frontenac dispatched a force of a hundred and fifty men to reinforce the garrison at Michilimackinac. On their way westward these troops encountered a band of Iroquois and fortunately killed a number of them. The scalps were an ocular proof of success; and Perrot, who was of the party, knew how to turn the victory to its best use by encouraging the Ottawas to torture an Iroquois prisoner. The breach thus made between the Ottawas and the Five Nations distinctly widened as soon as word came that the French had destroyed Schenectady. Thus this dreadful raid against the English did not fail of its psychological effect, as may be gathered from one of the immediate conse- quences. Early in August there appeared on Lake St Louis a vast flotilla of canoes, which at first caused the afflicted habitants to fear that the Iroquois were upon them again. In- stead of this it was a great band of friendly savages from the West, drawn from all the 140",
         "FRONTENAC'S LAST DAYS trading tribes and bringing a cargo of furs of far more than the usual value. Frontenac himself chanced to be in Montreal at this fortunate moment. The market was held and concluded to mutual satisfaction, but the crowning event of the meeting was a council, at which, after an exchange of harangues, Frontenac entered into the festivities of the savages as though he were one of themselves (August 1690). The governor's example was followed by his leading officers. Amid the chanting of the war-song and the swinging of the tomahawk the French renewed their alliance with the Indians of the West. All were to fight until the Iroquois were destroyed. Even the Ottawas, who had been coquetting with the Senecas, now came out squarely and said that they would stand by Onontio. Here, at last, was a real answer to the Lachine massacre. The challenge had been fairly given, and now it was not a Denonville who made the reply. There followed three years of incessant warfare between the Iro- quois and the French, which furnished a fair test of the strength that each side could muster when fighting at its best. The Five Nations had made up their minds. The cares of diplomacy they threw to the winds. They 141",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR were on the war-path, united and determined. The French, on their side, had Frontenac for leader and many outrages to avenge. It was war of the wilderness in its most unrelenting form, with no mercy expected or asked. The general result can be quickly stated. The Iroquois got their fill of war, and Frontenac destroyed their power as a central, dominating, terrorizing confederacy. The measure of this achievement is to be sought in the difficulties which were overcome. Despite the eighty years of its existence the colony was still so poor that regularity in the arrival of supplies from France was a matter of vital importance. From the moment war began English cruisers hovered about the mouth of the St Lawrence, ready to pounce upon the aupply-ships as they came up the river. Sometimes the French boats escaped; sometimes they were captured ; but from this interruption of peaceful oversea traffic Canada suffered grievously. Another source of weak- ness was the interruption of agriculture which followed in the train of war. As a rule the Iroquois spent the winter in hunting deer, but just as the ground was ready for its crop they began to show themselves in the parishes near Montreal, picking off the habitants in their 14:2",
         "FRONTENAC'S LAST DAYS farms on the edge of the forest, or driving them to the shelter of the stockade. These forays made it difficult and dangerous to till the soil, with a corresponding shrinkage in the volume of the crop. Almost every winter famine was imminent in some part of the colony, and though spring was welcome for its own sake, it invariably brought the Iroquois. A third calamity was the interruption of the fur trade. Ordinarily the great cargoes de- scended the Ottawa in fleets of from one hun- dred to two hundred canoes. But the savages of the West well knew that when they em- barked with their precious bales upon a route which was infested by the Iroquois, they gave hostages to fortune. In case of a battle the cargo was a handicap, since they must pro- tect it as well as themselves. In case they were forced to flee for their lives, they lost the goods which it had cost so much effort to collect. In these circumstances the tribes of Michilimackinac would not bring down their furs unless they felt certain that the whole course of the Ottawa was free from danger. In seasons when they failed to come, the colony had nothing to export and penury be- came extreme. At best the returns from the fur trade were precarious. In 1690 and 1693 143",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR there were good markets; in 1691 and 1692 there were none at all. From time to time Frontenac received from France both money and troops, but neither in sufficient quantity to place him where he could deal the Iroquois one final blow. Thus one year after another saw a war of skirmishes and minor raids, sufficiently harassing and weakening to both sides, but with results which were disappointing because inconclu- sive. The hero of this border warfare is the Canadian habitant, whose farm becomes a fort and whose gun is never out of reach. Nor did the men of the colony display more cour- age than their wives and daughters. The heroine of New France is the woman who rears from twelve to twenty children, works in the fields and cooks by day, and makes garments and teaches the catechism in the evening. It was a community which approved of early marriage-a community where boys and girls assumed their responsibilities very young. Youths of sixteen shouldered the musket. Madeleine de Verchères was only fourteen when she defended her father's fort against the Iroquois with a garrison of five, which in- cluded two boys and a man of eighty (October 1692). 144",
         "FRONTENAC'S LAST DAYS A detailed chronicle of these raids and counter-raids would be both long and compli- cated, but in addition to the incidents which have been mentioned there remain three which deserve separate comment-Peter Schuyler's invasion of Canada in 1691, the activities of the Abnakis against New England, and Fron- tenac's invasion of the Onondaga country in 1696. We have already seen that in 1690 an attempt was made by John Schuyler to avenge the massacre at Schenectady. The results of this effort were insignificant, but its purpose was not forgotten; and in 1691 the Anglo- Dutch of the Hudson attempted once more to make their strength felt on the banks of the St Lawrence. This time the leader was Peter Schuyler, whose force included a hundred and twenty English and Dutch, as against the f orty who had attacked Canada in the previous summer. The number of Indian allies was also larger than on the former occasion, in- cluding both Mohawks and Mohegans. Apart from its superior numbers and much harder fighting, the second expedition of the English was similar to the first. Both followed Lake Champlain and the Richelieu; both reached Laprairie, opposite Montreal; both were F.G. V 145",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR forced to retreat without doing any great damage to their enemies. There is this not- able difference, however, that the French were in a much better state of preparation than they had been during the previous summer. The garrison at Laprairie now numbered above seven hundred, while a flying squadron of more than three hundred stood ready to attack the English on their retreat to the Richelieu. On the whole, Schuyler was fortunate to escape as lightly as he did. Forty of his party were killed in a hot battle, but he made his retreat in good order after inflicting some losses on the French (August i, 169î). Although Schuyler's retreat was skilfully conducted, his original object had been far more ambitious than to save his men from extermination. The French missed a chance to injure their foe more seriously than they had done at Schenectady. At the same time, this second English invasion was so far from successful that the New France of Frontenac suffered no further attack from the side of Albany. While Callières and Valrennes were repuls- ing Peter Schuyler from Laprairie, the French in another part of Frontenac's jurisdiction were preparing for the offensive. The centre 146",
         "FRONTENAC'S LAST DAYS of this activity was the western part of Acadia-that is, the large and rugged region which is watered by the Penobscot and the Kennebec. Here dwelt the Abnakis, a tribe of Algonquin origin, among whom the Jesuits had established a mission and made many converts. Throughout Acadia the French had established friendly relations with the Indians, and as the English settlements began to creep from New Hampshire to the mouth of the Kennebec, the interval between the rival zones of occupation became so narrow as to admit of raiding. Phips's capture of Port Royal had alarmed some of the Abnakis, but most of them held fast to the French connec- tion and were amenable to presents. It soon proved that all they needed was leadership, which was amply furnished by the Baron de Saint-Castin and Father Thury. Saint-Castin was a very energetic French trader, of noble birth, who had established himself at Pentegoet on Penobscot Bay-a point which, after him, is now called Castine. Father Thury was the chief of the mission priests in the western part of Acadia, but though an ecclesiastic he seems to have exalted patriotism above religion. That he did his best to incite his converts against the 147",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR English is beyond question. Urged on by him and Saint-Castin, the savages of the Penobscot and the Kennebec proceeded with enthusiasm to destroy the English settlements which lay within their reach. In the course of successive raids which extended from 1692 to 1694 they descended upon York, Wells, and Oyster Bay, always with the stealth and swiftness which marked joint operations of the French and Indians. The settlements of the English were sacked, the inhabitants were either massacred or carried into cap- tivity, and all those scenes were re-enacted which had marked the success of Frontenac's three war-parties in 1690. Thus New England was exposed to attack from the side of Acadia no less than from that of Canada. Incident- ally Canada and Acadia were drawn into closer connection by the vigour which Frontenac communicated to the war throughout all parts of his government. But the most vivid event of Frontenac's life after the defence of Quebec against Phips was the great expedition which he led in person against the Onondagas. It was an exploit which resembles Denonville's attack upon the Senecas, with the added interest that Fron- tenac was in his seventy-seventh year when 148",
         "FRONTENAC'S LAST DAYS he thus carried the war into the heart of the enemy's country. As a physical tour de force this campaign was splendid, and it enables us, better than any other event, to appreciate the magnificent energy which Frontenac threw into the fulfilment of his task. With over two thousand men, and an equipment that included cannon and mortars, he advanced from the south shore of Lake Ontario against the chief stronghold of the Iroquois. At the portage the Indians would not permit their aged, indomitable Onontio to walk, but in- sisted that he should remain seated in his canoe, while they carried it from the pool below the fall to the dead water above. All the French saw of the stronghold they had come to attack was the flame which con- sumed it. Following the example of the Senecas, the Onondagas, when they saw that the invader was at hand, set fire to their palisade and wigwams, gathered up what property was portable, and took to the woods. Pursuit was impossible. All that could be done was to destroy the corn and proceed against the settlement of the Oneidas. After this, with its maize, had been consumed, Frontenac considered whether he should at- tack the Cayugas, but he decided against this 149",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR extension of the campaign. Unlike Denon- ville, he was at war with the English as well as with the Iroquois, and may have thought it imprudent to risk surprise at a point so far from his base. While it was disappointing that the Onondagas did not wait to be de- stroyed by the cannon which with so much effort had been brought against them, this expedition was a useful proof of strength and produced a good moral effect throughout the colony as well as among the western tribes. The events of ' William and Mary's War,' as it was known in New England, show how wide the French zone in North America had come to be. Frontenac's province extended from Newfoundland to the Mississippi, from Onondaga to Hudson Bay. The rarest quality of a ruler is the power to select good sub- ordinates and fill them with his own high spirit. Judged by this standard Frontenac deserves great praise, for he never lacked capable and loyal lieutenants. With Callières at Montreal, Tonty on the Mississippi, Perrot and Du Lhut at Michilimackinac, Villebon and Saint-Castin in Acadia, Sainte-Hélène at the siege of Quebec, and Iberville at Hudson Bay, he was well supported by his staff. At this critical moment the shortcomings of the 150",
         "FRONTENAC'S LAST DAYS French in America were certainly not due to lack of purpose or driving power. The system under which they worked was faulty, and in their extremity they resorted to harsh ex- pedients. But there were heroes in New France, il courage and self-sacrifice are the essence of heroism. The Peace of Ryswick, which was signed in the year after Frontenac's campaign against the Onondagas, came as a happy release to Canada (1697). For nine years the colony had been hard pressed, and a breathing space was needed. The Iroquois still remained a peril, but proportionately their losses since 1689 had been far heavier than those of the French and English. Left to carry on the war by themselves, they soon saw the hopelessness of their project to drive the French from the S\u002b Lawrence. The English were ready to give them defensive assistance, even after word came from Europe that peace had been signed. In 1698 the Earl of Bellomont, then governor of New York, wrote Frontenac that he would arm every man in his province to aid the Iroquois if the French made good their threat to invade once more the land of the Five Nations. Frontenac, then almost on his death-bed, sent back the characteristic reply 151",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR that this kind of language would only en- courage him to attack the Iroquois with the more vigour. The sequel shows that the English at Albany overplayed their part. The reward of their protection was to be suzerainty, and at this price protection proved unacceptable to the Iroquois, whose safety lay in the equipoise of power between the rival whites. Three years later the Five Nations renewed peace with Onontio ; and, though Frontenac did not live to see the day, he it was who had brought it to pass. His daring and energy had broken the spirit of the red man. In 1701 Callières, then governor of New France, held a great council at Montreal, which was attended by representatives from all the Indian tribes of the West as well as from the Iroquois. There, amid all the ceremonies of the wilderness, the calumet was smoked and the hatchet was interred. But the old warrior was then no more. On returning to Quebec from his war against the Onondagas he had thrown himself into an active quarrel with Champigny, the intendant, as to the establishment and maintenance of French posts throughout the West. To the last Frontenac remained an advocate of the policy which sought to place France in control 152",
         "FRONTENAC'S LAST DAYS of the Great Lakes and the Mississippi. Champigny complained of the expense and the Jesuits lamented the immorality which life in the forest encouraged among young men. It was an old quarrel renewed under conditions which made the issue more important than ever, for with open war between French and English it became of vital moment to control points which were, or might be, strategic. This dispute with Champigny was the last incident in Frontenac's stormy life. It re- mains to the credit of both governor and intendant that their differences on matters of policy did not make them irreconcilable enemies. On the 28th of November 1698 Frontenac died at the Château St Louis after an illness of less than a month. He had long been a hero of the people, and his friendship with the Récollets shows that he had some true allies among the clergy. No one in Canada could deny the value of his services at the time of crisis-which was not a matter of months but of years. Father Goyer, of the Récollets, delivered a eulogy which in fervour recalls Bossuet's funeral orations over mem- bers of the royal family. But the most touch- ing valedictory was that from Champigny, who after many differences had become 153",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Frontenac's friend. In communicating to the Colonial Office tidings of the governor's death, Champigny says : ' On the 28th of last month Monsieur le Comte de Frontenac died, with the sentiments of a true Christian. After all our disputes, you will hardly believe, Monseigneur, how truly and deeply I am touched by his death. He treated me during his illness in a manner so obliging that I should be utterly devoid of gratitude if I did not feel thankful to him.' There is a well-known portrait of Madame de Frontenac, which nay still be seen at Versailles. Of Frontenac himself no portrait whatever exists. Failing his likeness from brush or pencil, we must image to ourselves as best we may the choleric old warrior who rescued New France in her hour of need. In seeking to portray his character the historian has abundant materials for the period of his life in Canada, though we must regret the dearth of information for the years which separate his two terms of office. There is also a bad gap in our sources for the period which precedes his first appointment as governor. What we have from Madame de Montpensier and Saint-Simon is useful, but their statements 154",
         "FRONTENAC'S LAST DAYS are far from complete and provoke many questions which must remain unanswered. His letters and reports as governor of Canada exist in considerable numbers, but it must remain a source of lasting regret that his private correspondence has perished. Some one has said that talent should be judged at its best and character at its worst ; but this is a phrase which does not help us to form a true estimate of Frontenac. He touched no heights of genius and he sank to no depths of crime. In essential respects his qualities lie upon the surface, depicted by his acts and illustrated by his own words or those of men who knew him well. Were we seeking to set his good traits against his bad, we should style him, in one column, brave, steadfast, daring, ambitious of greatness, far-sighted in policy ; and in the other, prodigal, boastful, haughty, unfair in argument, ruthless in war. This method of portraiture, however, is not very helpful. We can form a much better idea of Frontenac's nature by discussing his acts than by throwing adjectives at him. As an administrator he appears to least advantage during his first term of office, when, in the absence of war, his energies were directed against adversaries within the colony. 1155",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Had he not been sent to Canada a second time, his feud with Laval, Duchesneau, and the Jesuits would fill a much larger space in the canvas than it occupies at present. For in the absence of great deeds to his credit obstinacy and truculence might have been thought the essentials rather than the acci- dents of his character. M. Lorin, who writes in great detail, finds much to say on behalf of Frontenac's motives, if not of his conduct, in these controversies. But viewing his career broadly it must be held that, at best, he lost a chance for useful co-operation by hugging prejudices and prepossessions which sprang in part from his own love of power and in part from antipathy towards the Jesuits in France. He might not like the Jesuits, but they were a great force in Canada and had done things which should have provoked his admiration. In any case, it was his duty to work with them on some basis and not dislocate the whole administration by brawling. As to Duches- neau, Frontenac was the broader man of the two, and may be excused some of the petu- lance which the intendant's pin-pricks called forth. Frontenac's enemies were fond of saying that he used his position to make illicit profits 1,56",
         "FRONTENAC'S LAST DAYS from the fur trade. Beyond question he traded to some extent, but it would be harsh to accuse him of venality or peculation on the strength of such evidence as exists. There is a strong probability that the king appointed him in the expectation that he would augment his income from sources which lay outside his salary. Public opinion varies from age to age regarding the latitude which may be allowed a public servant in such matters. Under a democratic régime the standard is very different from that which has existed, for the most par.-t, under autocracies in past ages. Frontenac was a man of dis- tinction who accepted an important post at a small salary. We rnay infer that the king was willing to allow him something from per- quisites. If so, his profits from the fur trade become a matter of degree. So long as he kept within the bounds of reason and decency, the government raised no objection. Fron- tenac certainly was not a governor who pillaged the colony to feather his own nest. If he took profits, they were not thought ex- cessive by any one except Duchesneau. The king recalled him not because he was venal, but because he was quarrelsome. Assuming the standards of his own age, a IC57",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR reasonable plea can also be made on Fron- tenac's behalf respecting the conduct of his wars. ' Man's inhumanity to man makes countless thousands mourn' in our own day no less than in the seventeenth century ; while certain facts of recent memory are quite lurid enough to be placed in comparison with the border raids which, under Frontenac, were made by the French and their Indian allies. It is dreadful to know that captured Iroquois were burned alive by the French, but after the Lachine massacre and the tortures which French captives endured, this was an almost inevitable retaliation. The concluding scenes of King Philip's War prove, at any rate, that the men of New England exercised little more clemency towards their Indian foes than was displayed by the French. The Puritans justi- fied their acts of carnage by citations from the Old Testament regarding the Canaanites and the Philistines. The most bitter chronicler of King Philip's War is William Hubbard, a Calvinist pastor of Ipswich. On December 19, 1675, the English of Massachusetts and Con- necticut stormed the great stronghold of the Narragansetts. To quote John Fiske: ' In the slaughter which filled the rest of that Sunday afternoon till the sun went down behind a",
         "FRONTENAC'S LAST DAYS dull gray cloud, the grim and wrathful Puritan, as he swung his heavy cutlass, thought of Saul and Agag, and spared not. The Lord had delivered up to him the heathen as stubble to his sword. As usual the number of the slain is variously estimated. Of the Indians probably not less than a thousand perished.' For the slaughter of English women and children by French raiders there was no precedent or just provocation. Here Fron- tenac must be deemed more culpable than the Puritans. The only extenuating circum- stance is that those who survived the first moments of attack were in almost all cases spared, taken to Canada, and there treated with kindness. Writers of the lighter drama have long found a subject in the old man whose irasci- bility is but a cloak for goodness of heart. It would be an exaggeration to describe Fron- tenac as a character of this type, for his wrath could be vehement, and benevolence was not the essential strain in his disposition. At the same time, he had many warm impulses to his credit. His loyalty to friends stands above reproach, and there are little incidents which show his sense of humour. For instance, he once fined a woman for lampooning him, but 159",
         "z6o THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR caused the money to be given to her children. Though often unfair in argument, he was by nature neither mean nor petty. In ordinary circumstances he remembered noblesse oblige, and though boastfulness may have been among his failings, he had a love of greatness which preserved him from sordid misdemeanours. Even if we agree with Parkman that great- ness must be denied him, it yet remains to be pointed out that absolute greatness is a high standard attained by few. Frontenac was a greater man than most by virtue of robustness, fire, and a sincere aspiration to discharge his duty as a lieutenant of the king. He doubtless thought himself ill-used in that he lacked the wealth which was needed to accomplish his ambitions at court. But if fortune frowned upon him at Versailles, she made full compensation by granting him the opportunity to govern Canada a second time. As he advanced in years his higher qualities became more conspicuous. His vision cleared. His vanities fell away. There remained traces of the old petulance ; but with graver duties his stature increased and the strong fibre of his nature was disclosed. For his foibles he had suffered much throughout his whole life.",
         "FRONTENAC'S LAST DAYS But beneath the foibles lay courage and re- solve. It was his reward that in the hour of trial, when upon his shoulders rested the fate of France in America, he was not found wanting. F.a. :161",
         "BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE OF the literature on Frontenac and his period the greater part is in French. The books in English to which attention may be specially called are: Parkman, Francis: Count Frontenac and New France under Louis XIV. Le Sueur, William Dawson: Count Frontenac in the ' Makers of Canada' series. Winsor, Justin: Cartier to Frontenac. Stewart, George: 'Frontenac and his Times' in the Narrative and Critical History of America, edited by Justin Winsor, vol. iv. In French the most important works are: Lorin, Henri: Le Comte de Frontenac. Myrand, Ernest: Frontenac et ses Amis; Phips devant Québec. Rochemonteix, Le Père Camille de: Les Jésuites et la Nouvelle France, vol. iii. Gosselin, L'Abbé: La Vie de Mgr Laval. Sulte, B.: Histoire des Canadiens-Français. Ferland, L'Abbé: Cours d'Histoire du Canada. Faillon, L'Abbé: Histoire de la Colonie Fran- çaise en Canada, vol. iii. Gagnon, Ernest: Le Fort et le Château Saint- Louis. 162",
         "BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE 163 Garneau, F.-X.: Histoire du Canada, edited by Hector Garneau. Among the original sources for this period the following are likely to be found in any large library: Jugements et Délibérations du Conseil Souve- rain. Edits et Ordonnances. Relations des Jésuites. Ed. Thwaites. Mémoires et Documents pour servir à l'histoire des origines frangaises des pays d'outre-mer, ed. P. Margry. Les Lettres de La Hontan. Histoire de l'Hôtel-Dieu de Québec, par la mère Juchereau de Saint-Denis.",
         "INDEX Abnakis, the, raid New Eng- land settlements, 147-8. Aillebout de Mantet, d', î18, li9. Andros, Sir Edmund, his In- dian policy, 89, go, og. Bellomont, Earl of, and Fron- tenac, 151. Bernières, Abbé de, 59. Bienville, François Le Moyne de, 118. Brucy, Perrot's chief agent, 49. Callières-Bonnevue, Louis Hec- tor de, 116, 15o; at the de- fence of Quebec, 128; repulses Schuyler's invasion, 146 ; makes peace with the Iro- quois, 152. Canada. See New France. Cannehoot, a Seneca chief, 138. Carheil, Etienne de, a Jesuit missionary, 139 n- Cataraqui, Frontenac's confer- ence with Iroquois at, 41-4. Champigny, intendant, his re- lations with Frontenac, 152-4. Champlain, Samuel de, 8. Chateau St Louis, 9, 34. Clermont, Chevalier de, killed at Quebec, î29. Colbert, minister of Louis XIV, 3o ; and New France, 54, 58, 62, 65-8. 16(4 Courcelles, Sieur de, governor of New France, 34. Coureurs de bois, the, 12-13, 46, 49. Denonville, Marquis de, gover- nor of New France, 103-4; his correspondence with Don- gan, 104-6, io8 ; fails to cope with the Iroquois, 103-1l, 135- 136, 138; recalled, 115-î6. Dongan, Thomas, governor of New York, 90-1, 96, 97, 104-5, icg. Duchesneau,Jacques, intendant, 51-2, 64; his relations with Frontenac, 52-3, 63-70, 8o, 94; and the coureurs de bois, 79-80. Du Lhut, Daniel Greysolon, explorer and pioneer, 77-81, 106, log, 150. Fénelon, Abbé, espouses Per- rot's cause against Frontenac, .48-9, 50, 74. Five Nations. See Iroquois. Fort Frontenac, 38, 43, 44, 45, 76, 98, 106-7; destroyed, 135-6. France, under the Bourbons z- 4, 11, 29n., 31-2, 85, 90; her policy in New France, 5, lo- i1, 68 ; the Thirty Years' War, 19-21; the outbreak of the Fronde, 21; the dispute",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR between Gallicans and Ultra- montanes, 55-7; war with Holland, 85, 90; war with Britain, 114; her colonial system compared with that of Britain, 131-4. See New France. Frontenac, Comte de, his birth and parentage, 17-18; his early career, 18-21, 26 n.; his marriageanddomesticaffairs, 21-6, 113; selected by Tur- enne to assist Venice in the defence of Crete, 26-8 ; gossip concerning bis appointment as governor of New France, 28-30 ; his arrival in Quebec, 33-4; summons the Three Estates, 35-7, 44-5; his tour of inspection and conference with the Iroquois, 38-44, 95; his quarrel with Perrot, 45- 50; and Laval, 51-3, 55, 58- 63; and Duchesneau, 52-3, 63-70, 8o ; and the Sulpicians, 54; his antagonismn towards the Jesuits, 54-5, 57-8, 69-70, 81-3 ; favours the Récollets, 55; upholds the brandy traffic, 61-1; his influence with the Indians, 72-3, 93-4; encour- ages exploration, 74-5, 79; supports the coureurs de bois, 8o; his recall, 70-2; an esti- mate of his work, 72-4, 83- 86, 93-4 ; his return to New France, 112-15, 1.6, 135-6; his campaign agaimst New England, 117-19, 121; his reply to Phips, 125-7; his Indian policy, 135-7, 138, 141 ; at war with the Iroquois, j 137:42, 144, 148-50; his ex- î pedition against the Ononda- 1 gas and Oneidas, zj8-5o; his reply to Bellomont s threat, 151-2; his dispute with Champigny, 152-3; his death, 153-4; his character, 24, 25- 26, 31, 32, 44, 57, 58, 150 ,154- z61. Frontenac, Madame de, 22-5, 154. Goyer, Father, 115; pronounces eulogy on Frontenac, z53. Grangula, an Onondaga chief, 99-102, 109. Great Britain, 29 n., go; and war with France, 114, 142; her colonial system, 131-4. See New England States. Hébert, Louis, a seigneur of New France, 14. Hennepin, Father, his rescue, 78. Hertel, François, his raid on English settlements, iî8, ig- 121. Holland, and war with France, 29n.,85, go; and the fur trade, 89. Howard of Effingham, Lord, governor of Virginia, 96. Hubbard, William, and King Philip's War, 158-9. Hudson Bay, the struggle be. tween French and English on, 105-6. Hurons, the, 139. Iberville, Pierre Le Moyne d', 118, 150. Illinois, the, 93, 95-6. Iroquois, the, and Frontenac, 40, 41à4, 93, 95, 137-8 ; their power and poitical sagacity,",
         "INDEX 87-9, 97, 109-10 ; and the fur trade, 92-3, 95-6 ; a menace to New France, 94, 95-6, 111 ; their relations with the Eng- lish, 96, 97; and La Barre, 95, 98-102; and Denonville, 106-7, 109, iio; at war with New France, 137-42, 149; make peace, 152. Jesuits, the, in New France, 8, 53-4; and Frontenac, 54-5, 57-8, 69-70, 82-3; and the brandy traffic, 61-3. King Philip's War, 158-9. Kondiaronk, a Huron chief, III. 139. 110- La Barre, Lefebvre de, gover- nor of New France, 91, 92, 135; fails to cope with the Iroquois peril, 94, 95-6,97, 98- Io2 ; recalled, 103. La Chesnaye, massacre at, 111, 135. Lachine, massacre by Iroquois at, 111, 135. La Durantaye, and the Iro- quois, o6, 109. La Hontan, Baron, quoted, 99- 102. Lamberville, his influence with the Iroquois, 97, 109. Laprairie, English raids on, 123, 146. La Salle, and Frontenac, 40-1, 45,74-7,92,93; and La Barre, 96. Laval, François de, bishop of Quebec, 6-7, 8-9, 34, 51-3; and Frontenac, 51-3, 55, 58-63; and the brandy traffic, 61-2. Le Ber, Jacques, 47-8. Le Moyne, Charles, interpreter, 43,95, 97, 102. See Bienville, Iberville, and Sainte-Hélène. Louis XIV, his interest in New France, 30, 50 60, 62, 67, 85, 117; and the Church, 56, 58. Marlborough, Duke of, go. Mazarin, Cardinal, 21. Meulles, intendant, and La Barre, 91, 92, 97, 102. Michilimackinac, 13, 78. Mohawks, the, 145. Mohegans, the, 145. Montpensier, Duchesse de, 22- 23; and Frontenac, 24. Montreal, its position in New France, 39-40, 141. New Amsterdam, and the Iro- quois, 89. New England States, con- trasted with New France,îS, 130-4; and the Iroquois, 89- 90, 104-5, 151-2; at war with New France, 123-30,1.38, 151- 152; and the Abnaki raids, 147-8. New France, in 1672, 1, 8, 14- 16, 83; status of the governor and intendant, 5, 9-10, ii ; the fur trade, 8; t h e seigneurial system, 11-12, 14-15; the cou- reurs de bois,12-13; the crea- tion of parishes, 58-61; the brandy traffic, 61-3; popula- tion and trade during 1673-83, 84-5 ;the Iroquois perii,87, 89, 90, 91, 94, 97, I11, 137-40, 142- 143,149; in 1689, 114, 115; at war with New England, 119- 123, 128-30, 145-6 ; her weak- ness, 130-4; from1 69o to î69ý, 142-4, 15o; and Acadia, 147-b.",
         "THE FIGHTING GOVERNOR Oneidas, the, 149. See Iroquois. Onondagas, the, 98-103, 149. See Iroquois. Ottawas, the, 139, 140, 141. Ourehaoué, a Cayuga chief, 137, Parkman, on Frontenac, 36, 160; on Hertel, i2o-I. Perrot, François, governor of Montreal, 39-40; his quarrel with Frontenac, 45-50. Perrot, Nicolas, interpreter, 13 n., 106, 138-9, 140, 150. Phips, Sir William, his attack on Quebec, 123-30. Portneuf, his raid, î1g. Port Royal, surrendered to Phips, 124, 127. Quebec, 91; Phips's siege of, 123-30. Récollets, the, and Frontenac, 53-4, 55. Repentigny de Montesson, ii8. Richelieu Cardinal, minister to Louis kIII, 18-19, 20, 21, 131. Rouville, Hertel de, 118. Ryswick, Peace of, 151. Saint-Castin, Baron de, raids New England settlements, 147, 148, 150. Sainte-Hélène, Jacques Le Moyne de, zi8, 119, 129, 150. Schenectady, raided by the French, 119, 121, 122, 140. Schuyler, John, his abortive raid into New France, 123, 145. Schuyler, Peter, his invasion defeated at Laprairie, 145-6. Seignelay, Marquis de, 70. Senecas, the, 107-8. See Iro- quois. Sovereign Council, composition and jurisdiction of, 9-io; and Frontenac, 65-8. Sulpicians, the, in New France, 39, 53-4· Superior Council, 9. See Sove- reign Council. Talon, Jean, 6, 34; supports Perrot against Frontenac, 50. Thury, Father, encourages Abnaki raids on English settlements, 147-8. Tonty, Henri de, explorer, 76-7, 92, 93, 106, 109, 150. Turgot, Anne Robert Jacques, 6 and note. Urfé, Abbé d', supports Perrot against Frontenac, 50. Valrennes, at Laprairie, 146. Vaudreuil, governor of New France, 8r. Verchères, Madeleine de, z44. West India Company, its trad- ing monopoly, 84. ' William and Mary's War,' 150. See under New France and New England States. Printed by T. and A. Constable, Printers to His Majesty at the Edinburgh University Press 167",
         "THE CHRONICLES OF CANADA Edited by George M. Wrong and H. H. Langton of the University of Toronto A series of thirty-two freshly-written narratives for popular reading, designed to set forth, in historic con- tinuity, the principal events and movements in Canada, from the Norse Voyages to the Railway Builders. PART I. THE FIRST EUROPEAN VISITORS i. The Dawn of Canadian History A Chronicle of Aboriginal Canada BY STEPHEN LEACOCK 2. The Mariner of St Malo A Chronicle of the Voyages of Jacques Cartier BY STEPHEN LEACOCK PART IL. THE RISE OF NEW FRANCE 3. The Founder of New France A Chronicle of Champlain BY CHARLES W. COLBY 4. The Jesuit Missions A Chronicle of the Cross in the Wilderness BY THOMAS GUTHRIE MARQUIS 5. The Seigneurs of Old Canada A Chronicle of New-World Feudalism BY WILLIAM BENNETT MUNRO 6. The Great Intendant A Chronicle of Jean Talon BY THOMAS CHAPAIS 7. The Fighting Governor A Chronicle of Frontenac BY CHARLES W. COLBY",
         "The Chronicles of Canada PART III. THE ENGLISH INVASION 8. The Great Fortress A Chronicle of Louisbourg BY WILLIAM WOOD 9. The Acadian Exiles A Chronicle of the Land of Evangeline BY ARTHUR G. DOUGHTY 1o. The Passing of New France A Chronicle of Montcalm BY WILLIAM WOOD 11. The Winning of Canada A Chronicle of Wolfe BY WILLIAM WOOD PART IV. THE BEGINNINGS OF BRITISH CANADA 12. The Father of British Canada A Chronicle of Carleton BY WILLIAM WOOD 13. The United Empire Loyalists A Chronicle of the Great Migration BY W. STEWART WALLACE 14. The War with the United States A Chronicle of 1812 BY WILLIAM WOOD PART V. THE RED MAN IN CANADA 15. The War Chief of the Ottawas A Chronicle of the Pontiac War BY THOMAS GUTHRIE MARQUIS 16. The War Chief of the Six Nations A Chronicle of Joseph Brant BY LOUIS AUBREY WOOD 17. Tecumseh A Chronicle of the last Great Leader of his People BY ETHEL T. '.AYMOND",
         "The Chronicles of Canada PART VI. PIONEERS OF THE NORTH AND WEST 18. The 'Adventurers of England' on Hudson Bay A Chronicle of the Fur Trade in the North BY AGDNES C. LAUT 19. Pathfinders of the Great Plains A Chronicle of La Vérendrye and his Sons BY LAWRENCE J. BURPEE 2o. Adventurers of the Far North A Chronicle of the Arctic Seas BY STEPHEN LEACOCK 21. The Red River Colony A Chronicle of the Beginnings of Manitoba BY LOUIS AUBREY WOOD 22. Pioneers of the Pacific Coast A Chronicle of Sea Rovers and Fur Hunters BY AGNES C. LAUT .23. The Cariboo Trail A Chronicle of the Gold-fields of British Columbia BY AGNES C. LAUT PART VII. THE STRUGGLE FOR POLITICAL FREEDOl 24. The Family Compact A Chronicle of the Rebellion in Upper Canada BY W. STEWART WALLACE 25. The Patriotes of '37 A Chronicle of the Rebellion in Lower Canada BY ALFRED D. DECELLES G6. The Tribune of Nova Scotia A Chronicle of Joseph Howe BY WILLIAM LAWSON GRANT 27. The Winning of Popular Government A Chronicle of the Union of 1841 BY ARCHIBALD MACMECHAN",
         "The Chronicles' of Canada PART VIII. THE GROWTH OF NATIONALITY 28. The Fathers of Confederation A Chronicle of the Birth of the Dominion BY A. H. U. COLQUHOUN 29. The Day of Sir John Macdonald A Chronicle of the Early Years of the Dominion BY SIR JOSEPH POPE 30. The Day of Sir Wilfrid Laurier A Chronicle of Our Own Times BY OSCAR D. SRELTON PART IX. NATIONAL HIGHWAYS 31. Ail Afloat A Chronicle of Craft and Waterways BY WILLIAM WOOD 32. The Railway Builders A Chronicle of Overland Highways BY OSCAR D. SKELTON Published by Glasgow, Brook \u0026 Company at 15 Wilton Avenue TORONTO, CANADA",
         "N.L.C. - B.NC I 1| | ||I I Il I i l i l 3 3286 05482090 3"
      ],
      "creator" : [
         "Colby, Charles W. (Charles William), 1867-1955."
      ],
      "lang" : [
         "eng"
      ],
      "note" : [
         "3 microfiches (107 fr.) : ports.",
         "\"Bibliographical note\": p. 162-163.",
         "Original issued in series: Chronicles of Canada ; 7.",
         "Includes index.",
         "Tod \u0026 Cordingley, p. 71.",
         "Watters (2nd ed.), p. 481.",
         "vii, 167, [4] p., [6] leaves of plates : ports. ; 18 cm."
      ],
      "published" : [
         "Toronto : Glasgow, Brook, 1915."
      ]
   },
   "version" : "0.4",
   "request" : "http://eco.canadiana.ca/view/oocihm.98447/1?r=0\u0026s=1\u0026fmt=json\u0026api_text=1"
}
{
   "doc" : {
      "type" : "document",
      "title" : [
         "The Canadian courier. : Vol. XX. No. 15 (September 9th, 1916)"
      ],
      "lang" : [
         "eng"
      ],
      "published" : [
         "Toronto : Courier Press, Limited, [1916]"
      ],
      "note" : [
         "Biweekly Feb. 2, 1918-Oct. 15, 1920"
      ],
      "text" : [
         ")WSER, BREWSTER AND BRITISH COLUMBIA m E C A N A D X. No. 15 September I A N** Price 10 Cent*",
         "THE COURIER. Service. Means comfort, convenience, safety. economy, and The home that is completely equippedwith electrical devices is a happy one. Ail the drudgery of housekeeping . a elimin- ated by electricity. You can wash, iron, sew, sweep, cook, keep cool in summer and warm în winter, by means of ellectrical apparatus designed es- pecially to relieve you of unnecessary and fatiguing labor. At our showrooms ail these ready for your inspection. demonstrators will operate and for you. devices are Competent explain them inei Toronto Electric Light Company, Limited. \"AT YOUR SERVICE\" 12 Adolaide S. . Telophone Adel. 404 CANADIAN NORTHMERN ALL THE WAY From the Laurentians to the Rockies Serving Canada 's National Playgrounds 'Including Grand Diseharge of the Saguenay, Laurentide National Park, Algonquin National Park, Muskoka Lakes, Georgian Bay Hinterland, Nipigon Forest Reserve, Quetico National Park, Vermillion Lakes, Jasper National Park, and Mount Robson National Park ALL MODERN EQUIPMENT SUMMER TOURIST FARES ii Il 1 Your Dollars Go a Long -~:l~ ~ y -~ the of The 1 Relief Comn -~~ N ' NJ£R before has relief work bee onstic a linge scale, or with an approaching the efficieucy with whi S being carried on ini Belgium. Fac, the appalling taskc of feeding a \u003cnation, the Belgian Relief Comn1is5l À ý11e1doue ruaguificent work. Scores of the ablest and highest sÉ business mený of the E nglish sPI world have given their time free, to the organizatioin and carry on the Operating expenses are phenomneually low. Business iueth applied to every feature of buyiug, shipping and disi\u0026ibutitig and accouuting for every dollar. The result is that millions of ]3elgîans are beîng fed at an average around $2.50 per faniily per1nonth 1 Compare that with yotar owfl and you will begin to realize what it means. But even this provision is possible only through the generous aid. S contributions of thousands of people. Canada has been doing nobl)Y shonld. Many have been regularly giving enough to f eed one-~or s Belgian Families. How many can you afford to support? Whatever, you feel you can give, send your subscription weekly, mlnOfl one lump sumn, to Local or Provincial Committees, or. SendChequus D e Payable la ,'~ a Rei fFun, Treasurer \u0026- O n e 59 St. Peter St., Montreal. $2.50 Feeds a Belgian Family One M' a A GRIOEAT HOLIDAY THIIE GREAT LAKE A cooL, hort plea=at holiday through inland se ate coat. Ilc Clyde-built greyhouimds of the intments are tesday, 1 William. Toronto, r Union Elec\u0026fic Uý11ý101ý",
         "C7/iec CANDA COURIER J½eA'~fOnafff- ekýer Septemnber 9th, 1916 INNIPEG'S $1Z5,500,00O WELL With a Broad-Gauge Railway Alongside that Cosi $1 ,300,OOO More TING into Winnipeg by the C. N. R. B bIout seven p.n., the visitor observes uom the train-window a strange-looking rein tiiat seemàs to be heading nowhere ini It lias tliree coaches behind aplug-ugly elast of which is in.scribed, Greater WvInni- 'District. Having heard of prohibition, you Micleve the îdea that the demand for water 11lY become so great that the oity fathers 19 It In by trainloadis from. somewhere to lie artesian wells. t le a mere illusion. What that train You do flot discover until, like the writer, Iv4ted to travel on it witli a firet-class cold -inch from Eaton's tlirust into your lap and aI' to go sight-see.,ing, some of the tiine by r gasoline torches and lanterne at a tem- 'If 45 degrees underground. Which is the 011 Wliy týhis story of a well and a weil-book alnong the engineering exploits and the Utilities of North America miuet be reckoned er' Winnipeg Aqueduet, which, go far as hls 'but one rival of its kind on this con- ý farnous Catskills waterway that provid-es C W4tli good water. The G. W. A. le fnet s the Catskills tube, but itle1 within a mile the same length.. Lt is bein.g built to reacli ,tancee of slightly under 100 miles, between la1n,_ andt lead of, water at an ai-m of Shoal r the borders of Ontarlo; 'its maximum 13il1e foot; maximum width, ten feet. It le' uPPlY a Peak load of 85,000,000 gallons a 5esthuaated to cost $13,500,000. It called Ia broad gauge rail-way the length of the P\u003eloPer, tb.at eost $1,300,000 more. The pro- set on foot tliree years ago. It will flot d for Proba'bly two years more. Meanwhîle aild five adjaent municipalities are aible ýh6Jt flowhere else In the world are 225,000, 'ý' limes that imany people, building a well ' PluYthing lîke thirteen and a hlf miflon LlIiding the well-hook, but flot the-bucket.' 7 00d p)erenta«e o! the average populace 8-g re dimly ,aware that sucli a stupcndous 'tJerway le undor construction, and wlth.ln \"àOls ot wliat it is schiedurled to oost. A LI Percentàvge o! those who know rnost about rl5r venture to say tliat in'view of this, that Uhruforeeee In 1913, lt wouid have beon etl.ck to the artesian wells. But the .great 'If those who understand the project econ- and1 financially have no more do'ubt of the )Qlrais of the G. W. A. than tbey have of 'at deleat o! Germany or the philosophy fludTizing person bad better ask Mayor \"sWVaugli wliat lie thinks about the scliome iill)Peg weN.1 Of course It happons that llei the Chalrman o! the Aqueduct Cern- 'S lut If James Waugh were only an t~axPYing booster he wouid be just as keen (u'uct as he le now. It is very doubtful l leding bosines, manufacturlnug or finan- 'f VinLipeg have the alight.est doubt that d'e l neeessary vbatever It costs u~p to %% or g. A!nd at the tii». thé bvY-laW Was e te rtexayers; t-o \"pend for better water \"0%yte biilld s~t least 500 Milets of prairie y A UG U STU S B RID L railway, nlot more than ten per cent. of the rate- payers cared enougli one way or t-he other t-o register their votes. But tliat was at a ilme\u003e wlien population was build- ing a greater Winnipeg by hundredts In a week, and when the average citizen was t-oo 'busy with land and ot-ber increinents tW worry about wbat aldermen and oontrollers and engineers tqok a notion to s-pend on public utilities. Winnipeg was t-oo -big to be paris!- monious. If Winnipeg wanted botter water than the artesian welis cou-Id supply, lot lier have it. If the Wianipeg of to-day didn't need It, the city o! to- morrow would. Lt would have been the sanie If tlie city fathers proposed te furnisli better llght, bat and power or cheaper coal, or ixnproved transporta- tion facilitries. The jieed for ail these tbings was seif-evident. The det-ermination We lot t-be powers elected get t-hemn on hehalf o! t-le people was magnificent. However, there were, and are, good, economic reasons wby the city o! wheat should invest millions In better water. In the first place, the old system o! artesian welle in vogue for about tbirty years past les becom4ing dourbtful. More and more wells are constantly bedng sun-k. The deptli now is over 120 feet, compared te about 20 feet in the beginning. Not even a rust--proýphet could predict when this Invisible underground systomn o! springs would play out and 'leave t-le greatest clty west o! Toronto at the morcy o! a filterod Assiniboine. And tliat's no bygienie elysiuni. Bu t suppose the supply is Inexhaustible, there is*sa chronic objection t-o the kind o! water thatcornes from, the su¶b-terrain of Winnipeg. Cheni- cally It is pure enougb; contains no bactorila, le clear and cold, and for tlie most part perfectly whole- some. But it is as liard as lquld iron flhings. AsIc the housebolders o! Winnipeg and tliey will teetify that kettles and st-eam-pipes and water piges clog Up witb some sort o! calcareous formation almost as fast as tlie frost gathers on t-be windows In zero weather. This may be a t-rille exaggerated as te speed, but it conveys t-le idea. Winnipeg water le so 1liard\"l that it wears out plumbing and elotles and peop)le's tempors at a wiveke.d pace. It boosts the sale o! Monkoy Brand esap and al-l the othor prepara- tions that molli! y bard water. Lt goes fiendishly a!ter the interlors o! steani bolers and rune up thle pries o! locally generated power. Lt ennies the plumber and the suýpply man at t-he exponse of! t-li public, wMicb is always a grlevance. And It is so desperate an enemy o! locomotive boilers that the C. P. R. made a present o! $200,000 t-o the Greator Winnipeg Aque- duct Association If tliey would guarantee t-hem good soft water for t-be boliers t-bat tank~ Up so lavisbly at t-bat Junction o! great railways. Witli suob reasous t-o back t-hem up, the Mayor and controllers and conceil o! 1911 plunged Into t-ho schemne o! building t-ho great well. The one' man wbo fi-st promotod the solieme was Mr-. T. R. Deacon, t-hon Mayor, former city engrineer, mining eflginoor and suporint-endonit o! construction on t-be North Bay waterworcs; a man t-bat bad a great deal We do wltb bridge Iron\" and other Industrial mrtters, had a summier home somo'ewbore on t-ho Laike o! t-ho Woods, and wben ho got back t-o t-own a'!ter Is summer hol4days lied a good deal o! hard things t-o say about t-be diff erenee lbotweetn Lakte o! 'the WoodW water and the water of Wlnil-peg. E Mayor Deacon was a man of action. Once the idea, got liold of him that a liundred miles from Winnipeg City Hall tliore was an inexhaustiblo roser- voir of good wa-ter absolýutely uncontaminated by sewerage, be began t-o think about how to get it into Winnipeg. ln this connection one tries t-o imagine an average Toronto man in any public office sclieming liow to got good water from even as near by as Lake Siimcoe, let alone having faith enougli in the absolute economy of ýgood water t-o run the buckot into Lake Ontarlo far enougli out to be free of the Toronto and Hamilton sewerage that backs uip witli an east wind. This particular .brand of economic imagination in regard t-o waterworks might ho just as absent in a num-ber of other Canadian cities. To ail those tliat have problems of this sort the bold-as-brass Lactics of Mayor Deacon In proposing, in 1913, to duinp an arm of the Lake of the Woods into Winnipeg for al time t-o come are wýortb studying. Lt was in lune, 19~13, that three New York engineers came up on t-he invitation of Mayor Deacon and lis colleagues t-o investigate the problem, of making an underground river from. Shoal Lake to t-be city of wlieat. It is to be Lresumned that there were no0 Canadian engineers capable of making sudh a survey. Anyway someo0f these men liad already been identi- fied witli t-be Catskîlls aqueduct t-bat supplies New York and probably had the very kind of experiencel that Winnipeg needed in t-he seardli for water. T HEREAFTER began plgrimages of ongineers to t-ho Lake of the Woods area. The proiblem was In many ways simple enougli. The difficulties han t-o do with absolu-te knowlodge of purity of t-be water, with the gravity system and with financing. It would have been a joke of tlie ages if Winnipeg had under- taken to sp.end tliirteo'n millions on getting germinated wator. Obemical analyses were undertakon In a laboratory u~p at thle Indian Schoel. Tlie report st-at-es \"The chemical analyfis show t-bat it ïa well suited for boler and manufacturing purposes.\" But people can't drink water that is merely good enough for boilers and manufacturing. Microscopic tests were made every other day for a period o! two montli. The total nunibor of lit-tie organisms ver cunbic centimietre was d4scovered to be an average of 833, wbichl ne1 more t-han normal. Any exceses over t-bis could easîJ.y be removed by filtration. And the water wis found to be sniooth and soif. Se far as quality wi is concerned the quiest for water wau sucessful. Ont obstacle remained on t-bis score. Falcon River diechi rgod into Indian Bay, whicli was the arm of Shoal 1 ake selected. Falcon River was broown with humus Ifroni the drainage of muskegs t-bat reachod back for ý.niIes along the route of the pro- posod aqueduct hia a sort of no-man's land. It was nooessary to get rid of tlie Falcon. The proposa] was to build a dam and divert the Falcon, sending Its waters on a fIfteen-mile hike 1l1 the snanshino round by Snowehoe Bay before It was cleanged by sunlight and ozone and got bacit Into Indîan Bay again. That was done. But that gets abead of the story. Quality guaran- teed-what about quantty? Slioal Lakte level might be feriously lowered by an 85,000,000 per ditem flcw t-o Winnipeg. AIl avallable tests of efflux froen Laie Superlor and Lakte o!. the Woods were dug up. Resut-that a foot deptli of Shoal LaIte le f ound te 1\u003e8 enougli to furnish 85,000,000 gallons a day for- a perlod of 8.5 mentbe. That Is, without any rai, v No. 15",
         "THE COURIER. for that period the thirst o! greater Winnipeg Up to n population o! 850,000 with an average dally con- sumption o! 100 gallons per individual could be sup- plied by Shoal Lake. These two obstacles overcome, the next was ýgravity. There was a height of land known as the summiit between Shoal Lake and the gradient lea-ding down te Winnipeg.. This could be overcome by two Inethods: elther -by natural gravity or -by pumiping. If by gravi ty, lt would be necessary te tunnel deeper under the summit. If iby pumping, that iower depth could be avoided. Gravity was recomrnended--and adopted. It is a basic principle ia that part of the world that most things gravitate towards Winnipeg anyway. Why not water? ~~E engineers' report occupies several pages. We I.can Ignore most o! them. The main !act is that withini three 'years o! thé time when the first test was made o! Shoal Lake water, Winnipeg has within at most two years o! completion the greatest under- ground river-way in Canada. The work o! survey was begun almost imrnediately. The first problern was to get rlght o! way over Dominion Crown lands, o! which there is a vast demain on the enstera edge o! Manitoba. These lands, beginning sixty miles or so !rom Winnipeg, were as wild as any hinterland la the fan north. Vast tracts o! jackpIne end stunted cedars and untractable muskegs stretched between the head o! water and the farm, countny near the city.' The surveyors !ound scores of caribou an-d moose, many of themn alnost Incredibly tame. One o! the engineers ýpaused under a tree tliinklng he heard one o! bis panty smnashing thnough the wildwood. The smash came frorn a bull 'caribou who, without notlcIng. the man, came up and locked his 'horns into the very tree on which the engineer was leanlng, thoen as he got the man- smeli he turned,,and plunged off Into the wllderness. To compvrehiend and conquen this rnuskeg-haunted wilderness for purposes o! a cernent water- way was one o! the most inter- esting exploits ever undertaken by engineers la this country. The report necornmended one great essential-the building o! a complote line o! broad gauge railway that could be used for carryling la ail the matenial used lu construction: Iron, steel, cop- Winnipeg Water pen, cement, crushed stone, ls the new undle gravel, sand and camp supplies. of 88,000,00( To build the 100 miles on less o! road cost $1,300,000. That was an enormous Item when a switchiback might bave done. But there was a shrewd econorny latent la the Winnipeg brain. That railroad might ibecome an asset. How? C OVERNMEN T land was the Idea. Nearly hal! ithe road would rua through these réerves. Miuch, o! the land, probahly fifty'per cent. o! it, was good,# arable eoil, capable wlth drainage o! raising inagnificent crops. Sample garden plots were tested out along the route. They flourished. With such land adjacent to a railway which was twenty-two miles at least from the Grand Trunk Paciflc and thé C. P. R. to the north and sixty miles, frorn the C. N. R. to the soutb, why should not this new rail- way become a. permanent common carrier? Ail .It needoed was settlers; some o! the theni surplus popu- lation o! Winnipeg dra!ted off to take up 40-acre !arms which by more or less Intensive cultivation could tbe made to gIve fat returns. The revenue freim the traffic created by this road would be enough to carr.y.the Investment and the openating oxpenses, and 'with an ultimate profit;, meanwhiie the road was needed to carry.in supplies. It becarne imediately économic la carrying out farrn !relght to Winnipeg pro 'duced ,by farmers aiready settled witbin fifty miles o! Winnipeg. Whether the road will be re- tained by the Aqueduct Corniissioners on behal! of the various municipalities -and operated as a revenue producen to pay Interest on aqueduct bonds, or whether It may be eold outrlght to one o! the coMmoi carrier noads at what lt cost to build a!ten earning Interest as an aqueduct carnier, is yet te, be declded. But the novelty of building a r-al, re-venue1produci5lg rallway as an adjunct to a waterworks Is one o! those ihIngs that occun most easily to the eiastlc imagina tion of the West. flere again the average Toronto vision would be sadly in arrears. Téleéphone lines were iflstalied. Contracts were let. Camps were run up. The big work began. For two years Rt went on, this sulent but curious invasion of the wiiderness by an industrial machine; railway and waterway surveyors, engineers, railway builders, téléphone constructors. contractors, gangs et navvies in many languages, the concrete mixer and the ordinary steam -shovel and the giant drag-iine exca- vator that stands buoyed up on a plat! orm on rolier feet that propel it over the muskeg, stands there in the midst o! a manless, even cattle-deserted land and gouges up the humus a cubic yard at a time. This giant wild-hog o! the wilderness did the cxca- vating through what is known as the big muskeg where the treinch is feom 16 to 23 feet deep. Any big game hunter 'walking through there a year ago would sink ln the ground almost every step between the knees and the hips. In iorder that macbinery capable o! handling the work could *be used, it was necessary first to drain the surface water off. This 'was accomplished by using a light gasoline dredge that put a six mile ditch tbrough as the line o! the aqueduct. During the past summer this big drag-line, wieighing 145 tons, with a 100-foot boom, bas been in commission excavating the waterways trench. wli corne for 100 miles through an aqueduct of whlých thls rground rlverway that wIlI provide future greater Winnipe galions a day. The aqueduot rallway rune along the ban It was a strange, energizing business. The moose and caribou drew off to the undisturbed places to think it over. Month by month the canal lengthened and the work o! building the aqueduct, began; built according to a model, not a cylinder, but an arch with a concave floor, finished In sections, first the floor.on the foundation ýsand, then the wooden forms that act as moulds for the arches, which ln sections 'were filled In with cémnent, set solid and formed the beginning o! the great hundred-mile tube. In ordinary construction such work bas been done mnany Urnes before; under circumstances se unusual ne-ver before ln this country for that purpose. To the question---How do you guarantee that the founda- tion will not settle and crack your tube? the answer cornes, \"Weil, you see, the entire weight of any sec- tion of the aqueduct, even filled with water up to the 85,000,000 gallon a day mark, is nlot equal to the original'weight o! the material excavated and that gave the s'ub-sand i.ts solid pack.\"- You ne-ver can catch one o! these engineers napping. On a recent trip o! Inspection, wben the wrIter was kindly lxrvited to go along, the 'best part o! a hundred mon re-presentiiig six municipalities ýdid their best to pick flaws Ia the project. Most of the attexupts *were genially met fby scientific explaniation. At evdry *f ew miles the waterworks3 train wIth is cold4lunch picnic party -on board stopped to let the shirtsledves gang rwalk through sections o! the coldý tunnel, *average temperature winter and summer, 45 degrées. *One o! these tunnel walks wastwo thousand yards done by ineans o! fraring torches; a mysteriois *aboriginal sort of procession that seemied like a cross between a pilgrixas' chorus and a parade o! the c-ave- mnen. The whole day, fromi aine a.m. until nean Mid *night, was spent on the excursion, Încluding a suppel at the beautiful Indian Bay camp, the chie!, be of which. was Indian Bay water, lce-cold and del The guiding genlus o! -the party outside of E 1 Chace was Mayor James Waugh, chie! comIxisi It was a hopeful, enthusiastic journey throi country that in places seerned to be a thousaWn from nowbere, instead of fifty miles or s0 fr0!! modern city. A T prsent the big trouble with the aQuec PIlack o! labour.' But in due turne the gý wellin laCanada wili be finished; and when It water that leaves Indian Head Bay this morIls1 iarrive at thé Winnipeg resýervoir just four fui later. The rate of flow is figured by gravity at an hour. The aQueduct wiil *be aIýl filled in, and overhead to prevent frost. When the arrives at the end of the aqueduct proper it carried by a special tube under the streetS R'ed River; fromn there by a six-foot steel tilane the river into the reservoîr, fromn which It 14 ,pumped into the mains o! the six municpalti( pnising greater Winnipeg. And when the first head of water stants fr liuge reservoir at Shoal Lake down the 1 tunnel to Winnipeg the guardian angel o! Chi4 missioner Waugh will be seen coming alo top o! the tunnel cafli banner inscribed, \"When Winnipeg wainte- as good as God ever in, had to have it.\" The first delivery of 191 in Winnipeg may 'be 4~V~ ~' panîed by an orgy previol known la Canada. BY tii Wi'nnipeg' wiil have bec enthusiastic over water whisky thaf it may be 'ne to stage up a water pageo Aqua Pura, tjndine, river-gods, waterýsprites, and nalads-anythinlg b chanalians-as chie! cIh to celébrate the year th nipeg first tasted water P ù well thaï; with the welFhb including the water-Malin cost $13,500,000. Ïl There is one very Clai X allel to the Winnipeg a That is the waterWaY from Loch Lomnond to The Scotch city had V trouble with bard wat, 1 Winnipegý bas. Loch far up in the Highlan1di la a section. This reservoir o! perfect 'Wat g wlth a maximum brated in picture, prose a k to the rlght. The practical Glasgowia Lowlands decided to sti the bond o! nion bet,ý Highlands and the Low -by condescending and -bathes in Loch Lornond water. WhS.î of this schemne was is nlot k nown here. 13 ,been a buge success. The difference ln the Winnipeg was that it was not the presenlt, future, for which the Commissioners had Greater Glasgow was a pnetty definite size, Winnipeg is -an unknoWin cuantity., Thle population o! 225,000 for the municipalities 15 Winnipeg us only a fraction o! the great citY to ruse at the junctIon o! the Ried and the AsS The -growth o! that city is measurable bY t It consumes quite as easily as by -any other Here are the figures o! growth for the per 1912, as contained in the engineers' rep0r mainly upon water: 1902 1903 1904 1905 1906 1907 1908 1909 1910 1,911 1912 Population. Gallons. Fer 48,411 1,550,000 56,741 1,860,000 67,162 2,ý40,00n 79,975 3,28#0;(40 101,057 3,500,000 111,729 4,580,000 118,252 4,880,000 122,39q 5,800,000 132,720 5,930,000 151,958 6,100 166,553 7,750,000 T fHIS Is for Winnipeg alone, nt Includifli imunicipalities which some day mlay b In Greater Winnipeg. It shows that the water has been steadily on the Increase gallons per bead daily la 1902, to 47 gallol Was 14 any.wonder that prohibition had 1916? Thée ýgIneers es timate that, even a day'ls too littie. They allow 85 gallons every person, sO that the aqueduct now Is big enough for a Greater Winnipeg of",
         "THE COURIER. UNITIONED RUSSIA ON THE MOVE Wounded Austrians belng transported fromn Galicla ta Hungary. Now that Roumania la at war and fighting Austria, processions like this will be stili longer and more frequent. Russian soldiers enterlng a Galician town. These soldiers are weil armed. Austrian prisoners in Russia now number hundreda of thousanda. The photograph below la a sample of the \"býag\" s0 much talked about in the newspapers; ail very different from what began to happen a year ago. To change the proverb:-He wins best who wins last",
         "THE COURIER. BOWS FRI BREBWSTER AND B.c The Pending' Election May Brin g Surprises to Both Parties NOW, If it be true, that \"an insttution is but tbe lengthened sbadow of a man,\" it is aiso true, that the fortunes o! a political party are so bound up witb the personalitp of its leaders, that politics becomos to a large extent a study ln character. 0f course, even a strung leader cannut croate the Issues, but hoe can put his uwn stamp upon them. Tlie elocturs oit Britishb Columbia ,will, on Sopteunber tourteemnth, decide, not su mucli betwoen pulicios as between persuns. Taken ab- stracbly, the plattorms of the two parties are sut very different. A year or t'wo ago, they cud bave boos contrasted, but now the voter wiil bave pre'tty mucb the ame aifficulty In diistiaguisblng between tbom, as Alice lu Wondorland had in finding the difforence betwoen Tweedledum and Tweedlodoo. The eituation remlnds one of Lloyd George's saying that the cburcb to wbicb be belonged was tors by two factions, that bie, himself, was passionately attacbod to one ut ýthem, ýbut hoe could nover remem- ber juat wbicb one it was, not that this cuming elec- tion is devoid ot sîgnificance, for, as a matter o! tact, there ls a very olear-cut issue at stake. Mes are themselves issues. Thoir record and character are factors o! vital importance In a vuter's decision. The Liberal party dlaim, o! course, that the platiformas are simillar, bocause theïr opponents bave stolen ail tbieir planks. But public opinion, and the logic ut events, point in a certain direction and buth parties must perfurce foliew. The record of the governiment, and tbe resuit o! that poiicy, as it relates tu the prescnt ecunomic situation, will play a large part in the cuming electios. But the electors are, by no means, focussIng tbeir attention upon the past alune. Thoy expeet to hoe shows some way out of the present muddlo. The situation in B. C. Is o! a kisd to keep poll- ticians awake at nigbts. Tbey cannot at ail count simply os party loyalty to carry elections. Thore bas aiways been a pronuunced streak ot radicalism in the Pacifie Province, but prosperity, widely dis- tributed, bas evor bad a tesdency to put radlcalism to sioep. Witb the -pincb of bard Urnes it again wakes into activity. Now, B. C. bas ba.d bard times enougb te produace almost any'tbing. Worktng men, wbo bave walked the streets ot Victoria and Vas- couver desperately hunting work, wbiob could not be t'ound; business -men, witb tbeir eye on- the cales- dar, knowing that their (business could stand Just se nxany weeks or mon'ths more o! sucb ecunomic star- vatien, and tben, tbe deluge; property owners, whoso bouses stood empty or wore filod wltb tenants wbho could not even pay tbeLr wator rates, were sot la a mood to bie roused Into frastie entbusiasm, simply upos bearing the party slogan. The first year et the war saw depression everywbero la Canada, but now'bere was It se grim and bitter as os tbe Pacifie Coast. Men la $20,000 bouses lived lu their kitebene, bocause tbey could nut pay for fuel and liglit. Men, rated as wel-.to-do, or oven wealtby, the year \u003eeflore, were Klad to pick up a job of $2.00 a day s'weeping the streets and there wore five men to every one et those jobs. B. C. liadt practlcalily nu factory oquip- ment, wiich could be readiiy turned to munition making. It bas nover been a manufacturisg provintce: agriculture is 55till in the embryonic stage, and one of lis muet Important Industries, timber, wsas fleaa becaupe e'bips could not bo secured tu expert it. It wae a situation to inake oves the muet con-serviitivo do a great deal o! bard thisklag, and the Pacifie siope is sot conservative. The country was, exceed- lngly well aware of the tact, that the old spéeculating regime was over, and that It was neeesary to get down te a -productive basis. The ordinary citizen seemod to hoe awaire of this mucli sooser thas the members ot the governmoint, 'w'bo drew regular salaries, and were net aitraid, at any rate, ut- the Vax collecter. Whes political meetings were beld, and government speakers, attempted to blamo the war for. the whole situation, lt was a very ceol and criti- cal1 audience wbloh, tbey met. Speakers who were greeted with enthueiasm a year or two before, now found that their perorations a'wakened no respanse, usnless it wore cat calîs and interruptions. It may net bave been entirely fair to blame tbe government for ths plight ut the country, but iV wus certalsly humas and, atter ail, govoxrnments who capitalîze pWosperity must be p reparea tehbave ecosunic de- pressioni put on the debit acouxsV The country wus noV enIy critic3l of pat policles, but iV wanted~ te kbw w-hat thie government prapoeod to do liw-- The attitude of ibhe man on the strftt eoui4 be B y F. H . STA PL EFOR D summod upýis the sentence, \"Weil bore we are, and wbat are you going to do about it'P' There Is nu province in the Dominion vrbere public opinion is more alert and keon tban it is lu Britishx Columbia. The iooseness ot political tdes is seen lu the great turuover o! votes in the rocent bye-olections. In 1912 Vancouver snd Victoria, whiuh elect five and four inembers, respectively, went solidly Conserva- tive by large majorities. Last spring a cabinet min- ister was, in ýbuth o! these constituencies, deteated by Liberals, whose majorities 'were much iarger than woro thuse ut the Conservativos lu the previous olec- tien. This moans that a tremendous numbor o! men are cbasginig thoir votes, and will face the electios coming this Septesxber with openiminds, very largely treed trois party Ïllas. There were nine Conserva- tives returned by acc'lamation lu 1912. There wiii lie su election by acclamation this Septembor, and there is prctbably not a sisnile seat whiceh Conserva- tivo -party managers can regard as safe. This radi- callsm. ut temper hy ne means confines itsel! to criti- cisis ut the goverument, but scrutinlzes wlth equal treedem, although not witb the saine asperity, the utterances of the Liberal leaders. Buth o! the party leaders, thon, have in a political field sucli as tbis, very difficuit roles to play. Witb public opinion su keon andearnest, resounding cern- mon Places will win scant approval. In B. C. the politician is sadly exclaiming, 'Lite is rosi, lite is oarnest,\" but is keenly apprehensivo lest, notwith- standing the poet, a politicai grave should bie its geai. ~T RE mas wbo leads the Conservative party pro- snts a curious study for the psycologist. One look at that great square head, with its strong face resting upon those maissive shouidée, would con- vince one that the Hon. W. J. Bowser le sot a mas to hoe easily catalugued. Iu many respects lie is the astithesis o! bis predocessor lu office, Sir Richard MeBrlde, in wboSe cabinet holi ad been. Attorney- Generai sisce 1907. Sir Richard was courtly, urbase and polished, and had sucx a gracefurl and triendly way ot recoiving a deputatios that i'ta momabors, do- ligh'ted at bis sympathetie hearing, would not bave the discourtesy to asalyze bis statements, ta find out precisely what lie had prumised. Il was only wbes they hadl left that magnetic presence and had begun te discusa os the stops outaide exactly what the Pre- mier bad said that tbey would begin tu realize tlley bad sot really beos promIs'od very much. The presont Premiîer is blunt and decisive and when ho mMles a public statement, IV dees sot take a doctor et pbilosophy to understasd wbat lie means. H-ies very asppearance suggests ruggednoss and puwer. This dues sot mean that the Premier disdaîns diplo- macy, for a mare a4roit and subtie politiclan dues set exIet ln Canadian public itfe. Ho dues sut possose the persoual papularlty o! bis for'mer leader, and bath 'wlthis asd without tés party hoe bas very numeroue enomies; but when a choice ut succossur for Sir\" Richard bad ta be made, Mr. Bowaor had but te choose himeself and isf.erm the party. There was ,certainly su u'tbor mas lu the party os a par wlth hlm ln intellectual power. If one wisbed te geV as estlmate utf tlie mas lie could, ln the course of a elnagIe aiteruoon, b;y isterviewing mes o! prominence lu Vancouver or Victoria, collect thie muet djvergent sud cosficting view 'points ln regard te him. Ose significant tbing woul bie that thoro weuld -be nu seutrals, every ose lsterviewod would bold decided views ln regard to hlm. Hie bas se lImpressed hies persoualîty upon the public lite ot Britishi Coliumbia that loir indeed tbere would be to wbomn iso sane brought su eonerete couVent of judgmneut. Eves If one walked do'wu Chinatown and Interviewed, Its slant-eyed inhabitants, hoe wou4d find Vixat even here tb.is mas was known and discus-sed. The veil o! Oriental passivity would not lift at the names ut Sir Robert Bordes or Sir Wilfrid Laurier, ýbut mention Bowser, and a ray et understasding will liglitert up, their faces, If we cose out ot the divergent v140ws the twu muet frequently expressed and muest clearly eunciated, sometiunes lndeed wlV'b cunsîderable bout, they wouldise up about as foilows: Ose viair wuuld lie, that this mnas mas the evil goulues of the Cosser- viptive( pay tbat h bas beMn the gulding spirit of thle uiost corrapt \u003cw6vrument that an~y province bas eo beucrsed- wl(1i, that BritIsh Çolumbla lias bees fgr1ý iphndered, until thse anly thlsiu lef axe the mountains; the iiber, minerai and land 'WB o! the province have been scattered wi'tb a la' band, to satlsfy the greed of the hangers on Of goverament, and that the directing bead of ail plunderbund was Mr. Bowser. The other vieW Mr. Bowser is an essentially honest mani, wbo, forturiately, was nlot able to carry througb bis policy, becausee of other influences; that Sir 11îcI McBrIde had so com.manded the allegiance of Conservative party as to bie in the position to di,! Its action, and that bie, and nlot Mr. Bo'wser, was spoffsibbe foer that pollcy, w'bicb bas alienated s a vast amount of the country's wealth. Lt Is full urged t.bat this specu'lative policy ef the gover;l was realIy wlhat was wanted, and that no gOv' ment could have heid power tbrough those, frax' get-ricb-ojuick years, w4hich did net minister to gamibling mania. When Mr. Bowsûr is ýin full Ce\" of the goverument, they say that a very diffel condition of affaire will resuit. T HE onlooker wéo seeks an unibiased view se in both ot these viewpoinits a large \u0026J61X o! truth. Mr. BoYwser has been for mnany Yeax5 brains of the Conservatlve party o! British Collini i-s influence 'botb as a cabinet minister and 3 man have been very great. Tlie policy of the g0v~ ment bas been admittedly disastrous. Cali Bowser, who had sucé. a potent influence inisS that policy, now ligbtly escape responsibiltY? Bowser, the Premier W\u003c Britisb Columbia, cannOt, own Mr. Bowser, the Attorney-General of the preVI years. Some, at least, of the econornie diaasteri B. C. can bie defluitely laid at bis door. AS 01'( the Liberal polliticians bas urged, the preseft deavour to escape responsibility would roulliS4 of the Jewisb prooedure -on thbe great Day et Ati ment, when tbey sèlected a goat and sycflbOlic loading it wl.tb the oins o1f the whule peuple, dr' ont into tthe wllderneas. The attounpt has ben to maire Sir Richard fufll tbe functions o« that for the Conservative paity. Put tie peu\u003eple Of Bri Columbhia will nlot se ligbUly relleve those silo main of resiponsibility. This present electiOli1 sbow tbat In spite o! sfil his efforts Mr. BOlv 'ifound no place for repentance, though lie SOI~ it carefuily witb tears.\" On the ot.hor band, quite true that in the boom days the pressurei~ 01 governient to Otve way to the speculative spirit exceediaigly strong. Il the railway and land P of the governmenlt bas proven disastrous, tbaft P was. none the less enthusiaistically endirsed b people et British ColumVbia ln two genoral eletl The record of Mr. Bowaer since *bie has bail a band bas been an exceedingly good one. Tbe ss last spring osf the British Columbia Legil't undor bis leadership, basý a great Output to S of really constructive and usetul filatlol -l.ie played failr with the teinporanco party, a\"t d the time bis pledge te tbem 'sas once givOin, te a prohibition act (subject to a referendum) W\u003e wou#ld uneet their wisbos, be bas nover re lis course, dospite strenuous opposition itil ranks of bis own party. Mr. Boweer Js nlo ek He bas a disclplLned and powerfui wlll. 14e bSg -spicuous ability and a thoaugh and intifliate 9 Wt thbe situation ln British Col'umbia. W-b\u0026te'ye b is previous record, siace bie bas assuined the mîiership, bis leadership bas ibees wise and able* question wh the people of B. C. will bayRe te d is as to 'wbetber this new attitude ot blis rýe, the real conivictions o! the man, or wbohe represent concessionis extorted tramn hilb awakenod and vigor'ous public opinion. one z îs certainly true, the Premier loves pcwer men do. Wbatovor be bis own predictionn, break no lances ln foolisb lEnight errafltry,bt coni!orm to whatever Io necessairy teo ildh8 'as of affaire. Mr. H. C. Brewster, snembçr for VictO\"L leader of tbe Opposition, presents a inudhil problem In character analysia. Hoe was frtee ln 1907, representiug Alfberta untFl 1912, h.11 ruo In an«ffther constiituency, lie was overwhelae the great Couservativo landsllde. LIUYt sp5 g again took bis seat In thbe legisiaiture, havi the bye-electios against t~he Hon. A. C. Fl3ie Minister ut P'iu.anpo, by a two to one maJol y la a sucees2tul business mas, being largelY Iner in the eanulng Industry and other ýbu-5i~le Prises of tVhe Coast. Ilo bas san absOlt',- (Co\u003encluded on page 21),",
         "THE COURIER. urks are Uneasy and ermans Pray for Victory riru Paris Heroes ýsist One Another rench Soldiers on ay to Front, Take e Air on a Siding A MAS'S MEETING I{ELD BY THE TURKS IN CONSTANTINOPLE. The monument sbown in the above illustration is a street foun- tain wbich was presented to the * .Turks by the German Emperor in 1898. The fountaln is situated in At Metidan, a tree planted square in 4 s Constantinople. The Turkish ora- tors are speaking fromni the steP, of this fountain to the Turks assembled in the square. Just la front of the steps may be seen a number of Turlvish horsemen. ýSince the outbreak of 'war Turkey bas had many war demonstrations ia Constantinople. Tbey have changed in characeter fromn pro to anti-war, however. A German field mass (being celle- brated da Poland. As usual, the Kaiser calis upon the Deity to back up bis policies. Goirades lna rms. Two wounded Frenchi veterans assist one another on a street-crossîng. These jolly French fighters are taking the air at a station en route to Salonika via Marseilles.",
         "THE COURIER. T HE F A MIL Y DO0C TO0R A Story NOT for years had George Ferguson lad to do so mauol of the manual labour on his farmi as ho was doing tbis summer. His thrce staiwart sons had ta.ken most of tbat burden off bis shouiders. But now ail tlree were in khaki at Camp Borden. H1e counted on having their heip for barve8t, wlený the farmer soldiers wouid be given leave, but lie bad to get througli tbe baying witii the ald o! on.iy oid Charlie, wbo lad long been a retainer on tiie Fe'rguson f armn. Andi now witb tbe constant forking o! bay the old feeling of numbness, w'hich at Intervals for a 'long tume lad troubleti hlm in tbe little finger of bis loft band, began Vo cause hlm serions discomfort. His wife urged bim to con suit tbe local physician, but lie sVibbornlly refused. The oniy occasion on whîch hoe liad ever required the attentions of a doctor were furtber balk tban bds memory carnied. H1e bati severai Vîmes bad to summon tbe doctor to Vhe bouse, but Lt was a]ways for Mrs. Ferguson, and at these ites lie u.sually retreated to the barn, w'here hoe pretenided Vo be working at varlous Vasks until somne- one brougît out word that Lt was a 'boy and that botb Mrs. Ferguson and the baby were doing fine. New, no persuasion on bis wife's part could induce hlm Vo consuit the doctor about bis finger. In trutb, lie wau mucli more alarmea about Lt tban lie cared to acknowledge; lie was afraid that if thie doctor once saw it lie wouid want to amputate, and Ferguson woudd sooner face Vhe prospect of dyiag by Luches than tbat of having a single incli cut off at one sio by Vhe surgeon's knife. But now the situation was becoming serions. H1e doggediy porsisteti in keeping at tbe wonk, aithougli encli day Lt caused hlm more and more pain. \"WeIl, George Kirby Ferguson,\" at iengtb ex. Clae his wife, \"if you won't do anytbing for your- self, ll have to do Lt for you. I'm going to write this very day to the doctor of Vhe Famliy Beacon and ask hM what to do.\" \"Doctors don't know anytblng about sucb things,\": lie repiac, impatientiy. \"Tbey're jusV looking for chances to cnt yen up for practice. Tliat paper doc- tor can't cut Lt off any'way, so you can do as you Ilke.\" And sbe did write. She toid in detal, aibeit ramblingiy and with repetition, ail the syimptoms, and gave a fuli account of the oid injury Vo bis éib.ow whic liber lius'band lad suff ereci wben a boy and wbich hie bad always maintalned was the cause o! the trouble In bis finger. T Eûs ekpse ihu any answerto bier mail carrier dId noV bave to place the Ferguson mail lu the R. F. D. box; Mrs. Ferguson was at Vhe gaVe to tako it fromn bis b.snds. Hastenlng into the bouse, slie nervousiy spread Vhe paper out on the kitcben table andti urned i ts pages until she came to the one wltb Vhe column headeti, \"The Fsirnly Doctor.\" Yos, thero Lt was, lier long letter condensat into siglit sbort linos, and tbe answer ailmost eqnaily brie!, wlVb many, words sbe diti not nnderstand, but witb the directions for treat- nment apparently clear anti explicit. This is wbat she read- (G. K. F., Ont.-Man, flfty-elight, lu good health, suf- fersq partial numliness of smal41 ing-er on loft haud. Wlien hand is in certain posItions it cauess înuch pain. When patient was about tweive year.9 of age be was strueck on elbow. Would fuIs have an effect an present condition of band? Ans.-4t is9 prcbaible that cieitrlclal tissue is cra,pressing the ùinar nerve at thie sent of the olsd lu- jury. Dlssectlng out the nerve might relieve the prosent sjvup)toms; but fresI svnspt(oms migbht foIlow format, on o! r,w scar tissue. Iointernally (two to Olve graIns of CAr. pai t ldde weIfl diluted ftbree 11mes pAIly) and tho tîncture o! lodine to thie seat of in3ury migbit cause absorption. \"lTincture of! iodine to the. seat of injury.\" S1. know wbat tincture o! iodine was. She bad a smali bottie oif LV, thie contents of wlIleb abe applieti w'ith a feather to bier corns. Wby badn't sbe thouglit o! .Vbls berse'bf? Sbie conid begin to use Lt at onoe. 1'lodine internaiIly.\"1 That mnust be sometling dii!- feront from whst she lad on ber mediaine sheif, or It would noV bave be-en nuentionet separately. \"Two Vo fAve grains o! the pat. lodlde.\" The. last ci wae evideuUly a mîstake for n. Patent iodine, that's wb-at glie must ask for at the drug store. It mjust 'b. a powd.r. \"Two to flve grains.\" Her husband's case waa getting sexiious; hie lad better have the Aive grains. Se would get the. drugglst Vo put Lt up in powders of Vhe proper anieunts. À mometary doubt crossat lier mind. Her llttle That May Have Corne True By J. ADDISON REID W HETIHER this story is actually true, or nlot, depends a good deal on what may have bee-n the experiences of some people who read it, or of other people tbey happen to ltnow about. This mucli iz affsoute tact: that the nowspaper paragrapli w'hieb Mrs. Ferguson cI.ipped from the medical columun ef the Famlly Beacon appeared word for word a.nd letter for letter in a weekly paper of Domninion-wide circulation under date of August the sixteenth, nIneteen bundred and sixteen. 'bottie of lodine was marked \"Poiso n.\" But the paper said \"patent Lodine.\" Doubtless this meant that the poison bad been taken out; or else the tincture part of the bottqe's contents wu. the poison and the lodine witbout the tincture wouid be for Internai use. Any- way, tbe Family Beacon doctor wouldii't bave pre- s'cribed it if it liadn't been ail riglit. She went over tbe paragraph agadn very caretuly to make sure sbe liad Lt rigbt, for she didn't intend to let the. druggist know the source of lier reciipe or to tell hlm that she had ibeen writing to the paper for mediical advice. The Fergusons did not have a reputation for closeness and she didn't intend to bave Lt tbougbt that tbey were too mean to employ Dr. Macartbur, but had to get theïr medical. advice free froin a newspaper. AIl the samne, she cut the paragrapb out and placed it carefully in lier purse. \"Good mornlng, Mrs. Ferguýson,\" exclaimed the druggist, com'ing forward to mneet bis customer. \"Good morning, Mr. Ross,\" repiiled the lady, not quite at lier ease, Her conscience was stili bother-, ing bier a lîttie about not consulting Dr. Maeartbur, and, good bonest soul that she was, she couldn't hlp sbowIng something of this mental conflict. But thoen, George lad positively refused to lot the doctor se bis finger, so wbat could she do? \"I want to get soine patent lodine,\" she stated. Tbe drugglst iooked somewbat puzzled. There was even a trace of suspicion In bier face, could she have read it, for bier siigbt agitation lad not passe, unnoticed. \"Is Lt incture of !\"dne you want, Mrs. Ferguson?\" lie asked. \"No, 1 bave that at homoe; thus is a powder.\" \"ladine cornes ln crystn!ls. Some, of tbem. are pretty sinail, but you'd bardly eal tim -powder. Is that what you want ?\" \"Yes, tbat's Lt; and Mr. Ross, will you put it u.p for me ln papers w4tb Ilve grains ln eacb.'» IlWbat do you want it for, Mrs. Ferguson?\" His suspicions were now clearly aroueed, and yet bis customer was one of tlie best known and most irreproacliable farmers' wlves in thie townwhîp, and there mnigbt stili be soime reasonable explanation o! lier agLtated efforts to purcliase a deadiy poison. She aise percelved bis attitude, but a.ttributed Lt to a different cause. S'be knew that Dr. Macartbor was a bai! owner of the drug store, and did the druggist suspect that shbe liad been writing to tbe paper doctor for m edîcal advlce instead, of consuiting bis partner? Wel, any'way, sbe was under no oblig~ation to con- suit bim; tbis was a free country; she could write to the paper If sbe wanted to, and sbe didu't bave to teul wliat sbe wanted to do witb everythlng s bougbt at a store. \"I want Lt for medicine,\" sbe ans'wered shortîy. \"You know you'lil bave to s'lgn for Lt In the poison .book, Mrs. Ferguson, and you'Il bave to tell me exactly wbat you want Vo do wItb Lt bef ore I can seou it to ýyou.\"1 \"Poison!\" she exelalmed, now tliorougbiy friglit- ened. \"lIt ien't poison. The doctor tolci me to give Lt to blin internally tbree Uies a day weil diluted.\" \"Clive Lt to 'wlom ?\" \"IWby, to George-to'Mr. Ferguaon.\" *\"What doctor told yen that? It wasnr't Dr. Mac- artbur?\" There was sometbllbg in bis voice and words that frigbtenred ber througb and through. There came' over lier a 'wild desire Vo tell iLim everytblng and to inake sure that she waan't niaklng some terrible fatal mîstaiçe. \"It was tihe Famlly Beacon doctor,\" shbe answered, tren*lling; tunmbling at the saie lime in ber purse; \"I wrote to the. paver; bere it4 is,\" puling out the newwpaper cllpplng and handing it over the. counter. The. drugg'ist toolc it and read Lt over carefully. As lie was d.oîng so, Dr. Macarbhur came IntO store. \"God moruing, Mrs. Ferguson,\" lie said, ch, fuily, holding out his biand. She took the proffered bsnd limply and lookO In bis face in a frightened way, making no vel return o! Vhe doctor's salutation. \"Is there anything wrong, ýMrs. Ferguso\u003en?\" inquired, witli professional solicitude. \"It's a 1 time since I've bad a cail Vo attend thie Fé-rgu familly.\" \"Jnst cast your eye over tbat, Doctor,\" sald drnggist, passing the ciippiug to bum. 1\"Mrs. 1 guson asked me for patent Lodine and said that W1 she. wanted was Vhe crystais put up in five 51I doses for Internai use.\" \"Humm. Hmm,\" murmured the doctor, reading 0u the printed linos. \"H1e evidenti-y int-endod to I scribe pot. iodide--'potassium lodide, that is, ýý Ferguson. This would lar-dly be excusable ir formai presevIption to be fi1Usd by a druggist. S' tered broadcast to the public this way, it's no0th but da-, I beg your pardon, Mrs. FergusOn3 a pioce of criminal carelessness.\" The friglitened lady was regaining bier self4f session. She had evidently been saved fron VCe T of poi.souing bier husband and now 'whlat was b0tl dng bier most was lier first fear that she wOtild tliought too penurlous to psy for medical adl' \"I trieti and Vried to get hLm to corne to yotV, tor, 'but lie wouidn't, so 1-\" and sbe toit 1151O wbole story. \"But now he'Il have Vo,\" sbe declared, witb de' mination. \"Wly, bere lie is uow,\" slie added, il tali figure o! George Forguson aýppeared In the dc wsy. H1e hsd driven bis wife in Vo the villag\" proceeded witli otiier errande whie she Was il' drug store. r' \"But wou'id it reaily have killed hlm, Doctor?\" aska, in a fri.ghtened toue, as hier hushand canle lier side. -Weil, VIree grains have been known Vo be a i dose. It's about as poisonous as oyauide of! POta8sl or bichloride of mercury. But even if yon bad tr Vo glve it to hLm you would bave found Vliat it fuses Vo ddiss»lve in wstor. IV là oniy solule a]coiioi-tiat is the tincture o! lodine-or in a ý tien oit potassium lodide in water, the drug VliSVt newspaper man intendeti to pro-scribe for you. V you fouud Lt wouldn't dissolve you would proa have become suspiclous yourself. Any-way It's you Vold Mr. Ross ail aïbout IL \"Your wife lias just discovered, Ferguson,\" bO e inneti, Vnrning Vo the narrowiy escapeti vlVicl'i wifely soicltude and professilbal caree55n \"1tbat this newspaper dQctor,ýsn'V quite reliable,' \"I dovn't know what thLs ls ail about,\" 351\u003c1 f guson, wlio bat 'ben iooking înqulringly froifl ( Vo the other, \"byut I tidn't intendti Vo akO VIe anyway. If I've got Vo bave a doctor, l'Il \u003c90 io VIat I can see sut wbo can ses me, and sot Vo' ln a newspaper' office Aive hundred miles awey' wisb you'd take a look at this finger, DocVO(r.\" '\"JusV coome back Vo the -office. Wiil you ne'~10 Mrs. Ferguson? I think we may be able Vo do ýO thing beVter Vlian kllbing Ferguson off Quicý 'e poison. Hbard froni the boys iateiy?\" \"Tliey'nre coining back Vhis week for ths avý sait the oit, mas, as the Vbreo filetd luto the oct office. Worried About the, Coal QAL bas recently gone np 50 cerits a tOfl in 5 eastern cLVLes, owing Vo increased 'e labour, mining and so forth. The, cost Of co now $8.50 a Von in Toronto--thougli very'ne mi'oi Vlan tbaV, up to $1~0.50 a Von ln WNinniPcg- while pr'ohibitlon Lu Ontario La only a fovW distant.bi \"Wiiat are you [,oîng Vo, do about licLuor Ver, Tom?\" ashoti a man tiown town o! a S' fils. \"Wby?\" saiti the other. \"Prohibition,\" salid the other. \"Oh-thaV's noV botherLng me- I'm more 0 over Vbea ceai question.\" \"Yen, y-es, tint'\u003e another trouble. Price $ol again?\" \"No, VbaV's flot Lt,,\",said Vhs other mian reftiy But V've goV my cellar se cramful o! booeete no roomo for any coal.\"",
         "TUE COURIERI. ARVEST rEEN the maples wave scarlet in the purpling baze, and pumpkins bespatter stubbly cOrn-fields with gold, and butternuts f al wîth muffled tbud in the woods, townshî'p 91fl to think o'f their annual festival, the lHome. Plreliiiinary measure delegates, two by two, sOliciting circuit of -village and foothills. ally, they square arrears in tijeir social ýs at the saine time. Having, like Captain Mlade a note\" of what eacb feels like con- ~a nputual exchange of news, continued freim viOus year, takes place. The operation of 11) geraniurns, or putting in bulbs, or soap- 11n the great iron kettie in the yard is sus- for the nonce, while thoee who cannot often wn \" to the metropolis lear*n what is going te wOrld wbere the road rune down. To the V'as the billfolk quaintly and appositely 'elUttioners, the view, the cluttered farm s, the westering sua on the clematised etone e shbeepD and turkeys and bons and geese in 11, ail look very peaceful. ,ht is darkening to-nigbt as you jog homeward ur spol,ý tangible as proclaimed by rotund \u003e15under the seat going d'own bills, and Leas recorded in your note book. A great ýbeese af a inoon swings clear of the horizon. se from tbe marsbes. Lights twinkle forth 'n'do\". As you draw near one of these, it oInd goes out. A moment later it reappears bed door, showiing UP inl bold relief a woman lan)and a man carrying a littfle black bag fromu bitcbing bis horse to a tree. \"Oh, 1 ami so glad you have corne!\" sDarsely-populated settdemcent on tbe Lower rence a visiting clergyman relates that the 11ome service was interxupted by a staIwart rlding Up the aisie with a pumpkin pie under tý UJPon reaching the altar and seeing that t \u003c\"us5icious places 'were alre.ady occupied by 1 O~f ber neighbour's culinary skill. sbe thrust ithilesi aside, and plumped ber own concoc- 'el' into their place. In tbe townsbips, how- N By HELEN D. WILLIAMS ever, the cburcb decorations do not excite exnulative contention, being restricted in Ibeir range to the vegetables and fruits of barvest. Artistically stacked oats eke out asparagus very successfully as a background against w-hicb to heap Caihoun pnmpkins, Hubbard and crookneck squashes, ponderosa tomatoes, Mackintosh re5d apples and braided strands of golden bantam corn. Surrounded by these products of tbe year's maturity, to joy \"ccording to the joy ini barvest,\" seem's a consum- mation devoutiy to be wisbed, tbe cboir's -paean, \"Now tbank we ail our God with heart and -bands and výoices,\"»les.q a traditional obligation than a sheer nec'essity. D ESCIDNDING to the basement, the decorative scbeme is curtailed te edýibles. Long tables span the length of tbe room, and on -the-se, sandwiched between ztring-miarked silver and empty platters of coîd meats, beet and cabbage saiads, pumpkin and apple pies, wbite and ibrown bread and aIl kinds of fruit make a brave sbowing. From the basement kitchen is waf'ted the arorna of coffee, and 01n the stove are buge ketties of steaming potatoes, masbed squash and turnips, and in tbe oven a pot of baked beans and pans of chicken and meat pies. From time to tume someone squeezes in witb a basket or covere-d die-h and deposits a cake or a tin of buns or a jar of w-bipped creamn among tbe beterogeneous reserve store on tbe side table. Sma]l boys and tbe squat, sandy-baired individual hired to \"wasb Up after\", regard eacb addition with an appraislng eye, knowirng that what is ef-t wili fai to their share. Meanw-hile everything is bustlement and good cheer. The nfiinis-ter goe.s about sbaking hands with everyone. A Harvest Home atmospbere perv'adps the place. A clatter of backward pusbed chairs, a husb- the prelude to the minister's blessing-a louder buzz of conversation perforated at intervals by someone asking someone 'else wbether tbey will take tea or coffee, and the dinner is fairly launcbed. In thbe main ail goes well. The i'omedy.'lnving flnd Ps diversion watchiag the byplay furniehed by a self- constituted motber ln Israel wbo, conspicuous uchiefiy by -ber absence during the arduous, getting-ready stage, cornes in sta'eng, se to s-peak, at the last iap. She burries down the basement stairs, responding to greetings with pre-occupied nods, and unrelling ber apron as she ges. Wben qhe has elhowed ber way into the kitchen she dons it -with a precipitation wbicb would seern to augur weli for tbe amount of work te be executed. Eut it soon becomes apparent that lier role is rather to get work out of others- or preduce the effeet of doing so. Her air of riding thbe whirlwind and directing the storm is amnusir 't or maddening to those who bave borne the brunt of the work, according as tbey are eadowed with or iacking in the saving grace of humour. Sometimes, the dispenser of avowed chieker-p'e is brouglit te confusion by one of the cieric prociaim- ing 10o aIl and sundry that the flaky crust covers a dece'ption. \"Cbicken-pie?\" lie says, with stern displeasure, probing witb bis fork and producing a steak bone in confirmation of bis statement, \"cbicken'pie? I think not.\" And be beips himýself sadly te baked beans, whie the abasbed waitress trips kitcbenward to cock a bumorous eye under otber, crusts, les-t inadvertently she offend again. Gups bave many times been refiled. depleted dishes replenished before the minister invites certain of bis male pari-shioners to adjoura to the Rcctory for a quiet smoke. 0f tbe rest, the bilifolk agglu- tinate into groups and visit, the girls and boy-s go on-t for a strol], the waitresses make merry over their belated repast. Presently they will ail congregate la the churcli for the tbree o'olock service. And a diminisbed number wili round off the day with supper and games. With the exception of the cburcb col- lection, it bas aIl been gratuitous. It bas, been a lot of work and ne one is a wbit tbe better off. And yet, as surely as Autumn comes round, the feeling awakes for certain upland drives and familiar faces, and ýn tb.e midst of city scenes and activities the mind pre- visions the Harvest Home in the townships. -R V.-(Continued.) By w IL L feit lie was paliag as Lced tbe blustering smal-ler mnan. Hie ýed that the passongors lie could see- at the smaleî ta'bles-alroady lied ýxPanatlon and tound hian wanting; tbe stiOaabiy bad done the sanie. Avery was dln 'with a sort of coatentod triumph. gram was for me, Conductor,\" lie re- tolegram, Conductor!\" the stout man de- ,\"Connery suggested, \"you bave letters *somnething, Mr. Baton, te show your re- )Lawrence H-ilward.\" -Te net.\", assortîag himself as Hillward grunted. Il anything to show you are Lawrence Eaton domanded of bim. tell any one on the train t-bat your name 'd before you wanted this. telegrain?\" arriet Dorne's voice whichi interposed; ~elt bis putse leap as she spoke for him., :ave any other name than Lawrence Hill- 3ther declared. .. 9azed from one claimant te the other. g1ve this gentleman the telegrain?\" lie 1. hlll furnlsh blm another copy; it was re- 'ln the train by our express-clerk as the 1 go forward and get hlm another cepy.\" Or' Yeu te decide,\" Baton said; and as 'niatter was closod for hlm, lie resumed lbe Was awaro that, tlirougbout the car, 'ors were watching hlm curlously; lie feregono the receipt of''- telegram tliat attention sb-ould ' -,,,cted to 'WIIY. Avery was stili gaz. '-im w'lth quiet satisfaction; BDaton bad net diared, 00k at Harriet Dorne. Wýben, constraiu- te a manner of ludifference, ho finally 'way, she began te chat witli m as 'fore. Wbatever eftect the Iacldont juet MAN IAM McHARG AND EDWIN Canadian Serial Rights held by tbe Canadian Courier. closed bad bad upon the ethers, it appeared te bave bad none at ail upon ber. \"Are yeu ready te go back te our car aow, Har- niet?\" Avery inquired wben she bad finished ber breakfast, thougli Baton was net yet tbrough. \"Surely tbere's. no burry about anytbiag te-day,\" the girl returnod. Tboy waited until Baton bad fin. !shed. \"Shahl we ail go back te the observation car and see if tbere's a walk down the track or wbetlier it's snowed ever?\" she said mmpartiaily te the two. Tbey went througli the Pullmans together. The first Pullman coatained -four or liye pas- sengers; the next, in wbichBaEton bad bis berth, was still empty as tbey passed througb. The porter had made up ail the bertbs. and only iuggage and news- papers and overcoats occupied the seats. The next Pullman aise, at first glance, seemed te have been deserted in favor of the diner forward or of the club-car furtber back. The porter had made up ail the bertbs thero aise, except one; but some one0 still was sleeping behind the curtains of Section Three, fer a man's band bung ever the aisie. It was a gentleman's haad, with long, weii-formed fingers, sensitive and at the same time strong. That was the berth of Harriet Dornes father; Baton gazed down at the baad as lie approacbed the section, and thon lie Iooked up quickly te tbe girl. She bad ob- served the band, as aise bad Avery; but, 'plainly, neither of them noticed anythlng strango either ln Its posture or appearan4ce. Their oniy care had been te avold brushing against it on their way down the aisle se as net te, disturb the man behlnid 'the curtain; but Baton, as he saw the baud, started. Ho was the last of the three te pass, a'nd s0 the others dld net notice his start; but, se strong was the fascination of the band lu tlie ale that he turn- ed back and gazed at It before going on Into the iast car. Some elglit or ten passengers-mlefl and, women-were ioungln.g iu the easy-clairs of the- observation-rome; a couple, ulstered and fuir-cap, is EYES B A LME R ped, were standing on the platform gazing back fromn the train. The sun was stili sbining, and tbe snow had stop- ped some bours before; but tbe wind whicb bad brougbt tbe storm was still blowing, and evidently it bad blown a blizzard after tbe train stopped at four that morning. The canyon tbrough the saow- drifts, bored by tbe giant rotary plow the nigbt lie- fore, was aimost filled; drifts of snow eigbt or ten feet higb and, in places, pointîng still biglier, came up to t-be rear of tbe train; the end of tbe platform itseif was buried under tbree foot of snow; the men standing on tbe platforma could baroly look over the bigber drifts. \"There's no way from the train in that direction now,\" Harriet Derne iameated as she saw this. \"There was ne way five minutes after we stop- ýpod,\" one of the mea standing at the end of the car voluntoored. \"Froin Fracroft on-1 was tbe oaly passenger In sleeper Number Two, and they'd told me to get up; tbey gave me a berth in anot-hor car and cut my sleeper ont at Fracroft-wo were buck- ing the drifts, about four miles an bour; it seexned te fill in bebind about as fast and as tbick as we werie cuttiag It out in front. It ai drlfted in bohind as soon as we stopped, tbe conductor tells me.\" The girl made polite acknowledgment and re- ferred to ber two companions. \"Wbat shall we do witb ourselves, then?\" \"Cribliage, Harriet? Yen and l?\" Avery lnvited. Sho sbook ber head. \"If we bave te play cards, get a feurth and make It auction; but must it b2 cards? Isn't there somne way we can get eut for a walk ?\" \"There's the top Of the cars, Miss Derne,\" Baton suggestod. \"If we couid got uP there, we'd get a fairly décent walk and see everything.\" \"Good!\" the girl applauded. 'How de we get \"l'il1 see the conductor about it,\" Baton offered; and before Avery could discuss it, lie s.tarted backt througbh the train. (Contlnued on page 23.) THE TOWNSH HE B LIN D",
         "THE COURIER. Great French PicturE ,4It the Canadian National Exhibitio By ESTELLE M. KERR CANADA abounds in art critis. The greatest masters of the nato has ackno'wledged supremacy in painting are summarily,çondelfl a apublic who have been taught by art dealers to think that n Spainting lias culminated ini the pretty domestic scenes of the school. Frenchi art bewilders themn, as Wagner's operas must startie One musical experience has been confined to the singing of, \"Annie Laurie' young lady in booli-musiu. But why do people who remain discreetY wliex music is discussed (become so voluible at an art exhibition? Wy HISTLER says that \"Art knows no0 country,\" and the collection 0f Wings at the C~. N. E., though supposedly 1representative of Frea during the last fifteen years, contains a mixture of academic restrail rýnipant radicalism that seem to have been spread over a mucli longer and miglit be the product of a dozen different nations. The Exhibitiý whole suffers in consequenice. The high-keyed paintings by Maurice flat and decorative,,demand a light-toned architectural setting. Even the famous decorations by Puvi-s de Chavannes, in the Pantheon of paris, look unattractive tu the galleries of the Toronto Exhibition. But th modern Frenclimen are poorly represeated. Matisse is there, and Gaug others who have recen'tly aroused s0 muchidiscussion are conspicuou-9lY The pictsures thflt'c-ommand the high est prices are those by Renoir and Monet. These -are net necessariiy the best, but, being -by deceased who have become very fainous, fancy priqes are asked. A few of thes been selected from the RetrospectIve Frenchi Exhibi 'tion at -the Panan1a Exposition, but the majorlty of the, canvases sho'wn were chosen frc Frenchi section -in -the Palace of Fine Arts. It is bard to understand whY and Le Sîdaner have been omitted lu favour of comparatively unknoW'l S OME ot the struggling Canadian artists rejoice-d to see the wor\u003c5 0 'Jormner masters. There was Colin, whose paintings were considered wbat \"tlglt\" even in my student days, but he had a popular sunfluer ln a little village near the forest of Fontainbleau, where one could stl' living modal out of doors. Re also gave critlcisms at the Academie de Il Chaumiere ln Paris once a week, consisting chiefiy of a murmured \"Pas Blanche and Simon ha-d an enormous followlng iu a class at which theY gave critIclsnis; It was too crowded for comfort. I nearly eoîlowed Simon to Brlttany -one summer. Iadeed, 1 pald $10 to someone Wb arranging a class (and only those who 'have lived the lite of an art stuc Paris know what a lot of money that is),,but 1 discovered resenttullYt were obliged to live la the next village-far removed from the master'5 5 and only gave criticisms twice a month. So 1 eorfeited the money. of the pictures on view are of bis favourite Brittany scenes. \"The Ge is a masterpiece, resplendent in colour, and \"The Bath\" Is equally bri brush work, thougli more sombre lu tone. .Iacques-Emile Blanche was popular as an instructor. Ia those daÉys he paintedl with a free, fiuid ètroke like Sargeant, 'but judging from the two canvases now an01ve painting lias 'beconie less brilliant, though 'it may have gained in dePl portrait ot Henry James is a real masterpiece. I remember one gala àaj he asked us ta bis private studio, Hie spoke and acted like a very chý Englislhman, and we were properly thrilled to find ourselves in such a studio belonglng to isuch- a great artist. yOFFBAUER was another artlst who murmure# polltely over mnY Hlattempts at painting. He îs an Alsatian, handsome and very b1011 galned the Prilx de Rome the year I was la Paris, whlch means that then under thirty, and a few years ago lie took a studio ln New Yor'k, W palnted \"The Metropolitan Tower at Night,\"1 now on vlew. There other exhibitors for whom I have a personal affection, as wellas an ad0u for their work. Franz Charlet, of Brussels, who exhibits \"lIýressin9 3g the Belgian Section, and Augustin Hanicotte, who shows a \"ýWinter SI the Low Countries.\" This is not one of M. Hanicotte's best works, but it typical of Volendam, where he lved. It is full of kindly humour, anid t] ject is more like a etudy for ene of the coloured lithograplis he draW5' ý than a painting. M. Hanicette was the most popular person lu the villag Madamn Ida Rubin- stein ln \"Schehera- zade\", (above), by Jacques E mil 1e Blanche, the greatest of Ërench portrait painters, who has tak- en great deiight In de- picting the rich orien- tal draperies and the harem background. The Red Shawi (right) bà y Hermran Richir*, who contributes the most notable pictures ln the Belgian section. His o t h e r canvas, IlLooking Backward,\" recails the work of the greatest of ail Beigian painters, Alfred Ste- vens. Commnicnts Flnder, b Frnces-Chrle Bade.The Silver Thread cf the, rairne, Uiy Georgjes Grlveau. Communicants, Flanders, by Francois-Charles Bautie.",
         "THE CO UIER. sants admired him, particularly the children. vas one old man of eighty, Jap van der Krap, Ihief interest inIi f e *was bis daily conversa- LFrench-wjth M. Hanicotte. The only words v were: \"Il fait beau temps.\" These hie bad 111 bis youth when hie had served with bis kt in France, lbut hae repeated them, rain or lid then swag-gered back to bis friends saying, anitiy: \"I've just been taiking a littie French Hanicotte.\" The artist's paintings deal exciusiveiy with the Ille of the littie village lrstands sa weii. He paints only large pic- r gaileries and -wili seli none of bis sketches. tors were allowed in his studio, but I was ad- the day before my departure under promise Cy and saw the great work whicb hie had been Sfor nearly three years- lifficuit to decide on the merits of an artist in a few examplas o! his work. A one-man Dai ntings by Besnard, which I saw in Paris, I nOSt astonisbing thing I have ever seen. Painter that werks with remarkabie surety o! enIbined with iightning-like rapIdity, and such ty Of subjects! 1 am aise familiar with bis In the Opera Comique and in the Hotel de arIs, but the aine ýpicilires on view in Toronto ly different from anything I have previously rbey are ail eastern subjects, bizarre, 7erne- Ldeous-dancers with faces painted bright repulsive oid beggars-yet te me they are :lng. 'ON LA TOUJCHEils another artist wbem 1 I've long worshipped from. afar. He is a mas- uIghtsman, especîaîiy interested -in unusual Of llght. One of bis paintings-a fountaîn at es !M the Gallery o! the Luxembourg, was fer 'n 111Y favourite painting, andthough \"Hallali\" .Simmer Nîght\" could net be couintedl bis t WOrks, they are ameng the mest interesting in the collection. Henri Care-Delvailie was le moest popularý paînter In Paris, and \"The rltbl the Hydrangea\" is a fine work of art, 'lot at ai tyýpical of biýs work. He is better ,by, WÉ. conventional groups e! fashionably *woie n, eften eut o! deors and in sunlight, le Daints -with llg'bt, broken celeurlng. Alfred- Hallali, by Gaston La Touche, e Ral, president o! the Societe Nationale des (above), Io a gorgeous spectacle Arts, and one ef the forernost French artiste, of Autumn colourlng. The blue '5sflted by five pd4ctures and a place o! sculp- of the water, the red coats of ne is an extraordinariiy\u003e versatile painter, the hunt, are bathed lIn sunshine for bis battie-pieces. But ail French artists and a shower of golden ieave3. 'sýatile. Te be a landscape painter pure and Often signifies a lack o! knowiedge of the and the Frenchman evinces a preference o! Trhe Cathedral of Rheims (E- li art, but knows ne 1imltatlonp fore the Bombardment), by Paul thtclurerdcinbss ral m Helîgu (below), le a charming thatcolur rproucton bs B gretlYIm- Interlor by an artlst who Is fam- \"oved, the werk of fereign artists will beceine eus for his dry-poInt portrait ideLiY known. The imostfamillar naines 'in the etchings. ue, te many people, are those wbo have icommercial mediums. Teposters of Swbe exhibits in the flelgian collection, have N'ide circulation. Boutet de Monvel is known hi%5 book Illustrations, and Paul Htlieu, who San, Interlor o! the Cathedral e! Rheims befere 'êfllent, is celebrated for his dry-peint portrait ý. Photographie reproductions niay give one idea of pletures such as 'ýSaint Cecilla in the ýnb5,\" by Cave, or \"The Sword,\" by Agache, these the drawing is 'far more Important than Ouir, and the surface is per!ectly sxnootb, but rk Of the so-called impresslonists, who paint 1 Its Vrlsmatic colours, must be seen te be aeand our opportunities In Canada are LYONE bas 'two cou ntries, bhis' own and lce.n\" This may net a-pply te the majority ',1ns but te the lucky few wbo spen t saine rstildent days in Paris, it Is certainiy true. 't te the French ýSection of the Fine Arts De- ntWas, like a: returnteo that oth'er loved colin- d It i good te see that Canadians have thlie OI»Pertunlty te become famii4ar witliemodemn 1lnihs byour own artistes stood the test o! 'Onvery weii. They'.retnresented the best s bOwn at the large exhibitions held durlne 8'r ald- contained: a hlgber percentage Of ýPSthan in the French section. The figure s'Bere confined chiefiy ta portraits, or arrange- et One figure, but there le a tendpey ta be letionai and, fîred by the inspi ration o! the raters, our artists wili deubtless taike fresb Po aint lite and light with its movement ,ý1lacY rather than the traditional \"studio The Man In Pink (left), by Albert Besnard, a versatile painter whose ceilings In the Opera Comique and Hotel de Ville, Paris, brought hlm unîversal renown. The Lady wlth the Hydrangea, by H-enri Caro-Delvalile, nt one tîme t h e most fashionable portrait pointer In Paris.",
         "THlE COURIER. o IT WAS TOMBE EXPEOTED that many Englishmen migbt differ with ou~r view of the Englishman in Canada. It was not to be expected that they would intei'pret the editorials in question as attacks upon ail Englishmen and upon England. Let us makre clear that point at once. In splte of George Meredith, who wrote, in effeet, \"An Englishman travels oniy in order to, discover the abhortions oif bis Creator,\" ln s'pite of Haldane and Lord Lansdowne, ln epite of Ireland and --oten--of the Englishman bime-1f, we Canadiane cherleli a profound affection and admiration for the Englishman. The ancestore of mainy of us were Emgliah. Sumie of us were ourselves E:,ls by birth. TheEnglishman of to-day becomes the Cana- dian of to-morrow. And the Eu1glîshman's virtues are far more numerous than bis faiXitz. His tran- quiiity in the face ot danger iaay be crudely stoical, but It le admirable. Hie detestatian of emotion may be laci\u003c ot sympathetie understanding, but it is net gain, nat loss. Hie inibarn sanity and common-sense may be mere pblegm but it le an examiple to ail manktnd. These are anly a few of many re-asons why we are glad to calu an En.glishman our brother and happy ta welco.me blmn to Canada. B UT WE HAVE IN THIS COUNTRY à state in embryo. its material wealth can scarceiy be estlxnated. is possibilities as a supporter of a glorlous cominunity ot happy, healthy aad, above ail, stateloving people, are iafinIte. In short, while England has achieved lier glory and wears lier crown, Canada'e glury lies ail la the future. It depends upon the 'will and the d.evotion of Canadians to Canada 'wbetber the future milons la this country are Vo be counted. oaiy la terms of pogulation, or by the higli standard ot citizensbltp and the wise atnd useful in- stitutioas whlcb the Canadian peuple evdlve ont of the special conditions In whicb they lve. One Englishman, writing us f romn Montreal, asks h*w hie can ho expected to prefer Canada to England, wËen Ia England hie can hear Waignerlan operas, see excellent p.ays, bear faaus presses turnîng out ecbolaxly books, and ruib eibows with great mon and the scions o! Illustrlous houses In the Mail? His complaint le unanswerable. We are iadeed starved for opera, deluged with pour books and surrouaded by mon wbo are, aias, to attea oaly common dlay lke ouirelves. We go wltb hua stili farther: we have no cbarming hedges. We have no really good servants. Gar politics are notclean. Our workmea are too otten wasteful. Our public servants are- seldom compétent and ottea dishoneet. Public spirit la se rare a tbiag that the parties are forced ta recruit their ranks with demagogues and explalters. AUl- Canadian sentiment le sa weak that we bave sponged pur sea de! once Instead of taklng lt over ourselves and Haigonlans ta-day feel dloser In huart ta Boston than to, Toronto, and lncomparably dloser ta London than, say, ta Vancauver. T HESE CONDITIONS WEAKII\u003eN nat only Can' ada, but the Empire. To remove tbemn la to stren!gthea both. The alilg of ultra-FEnglish loyaity by mea who are outwardly Canadian citizeas dues not help achieve thîs end. Talli of Empire cen.. tralizatian, msking Canada a sirburlb of Landau, la stilI wmre, for strangu as it may seein,- there are far toe many native Canadians who, by sucb talic as this, can be worked inta fraatlc patriortic feeling for a country they have never seen, whlle they re- main ignorant ut and ladifferent te 'whatever parts o! Canada lie outside their immediatu kun. A sound CanadLaalsm, su esseatial ta a stroaig Canada and a staunch Empire, is bard to bul3d up. Englishmen In Canada, knowing as they sbould the great value of patrl.utism, might wellinl the intorests of the Empire they prizu, bulp promote a sound Canadian spirit. Tbat la the llrst stop tuward building up those \"new coantres of! strungtb\" of wblcb no less a Ceatralit than Lard Milner, so otten speaks. MR. RICKkEiDS, OF STRATHOONA, Albuita, Mwhoee cluar and thoughtful letters we are uarbI to publisb for lacli o! s'pace, tells us that there le nu n.e.4 ta diraw thu distinction bhe.tween Elishzaen and Caniadiana. That an Englishman, like a anadian, la at home in whatever part of the Emir b may bu. This la true la the sense that the -buira of a~ geat traition are brothers anxd there- tore not strangors In eue another!8 homèm. But there the truth ends. We do not ail live la une bouse, naor ail la one climate. We have separate homes and separate prableme, and it behooves those who leave the old hume for a new one ta join heart and soul la making the new home strang. It may nat have the finish and comfort uft he old une, but ta men cf hope, faith and vision ht bas more! It is hike a great heap of richesi materials tram which, if we are true ta ourse-Ives, a state can bu built aubIer aad happier than the greatest ut ta-day. rVFRY NEW ALLY TEAOHES us something. E Roumania lias prubably a more adv ancud sys- tem for eacouraging iadustry than even the Germans. By a law passed ln 1887 the State of Raumania pi-avides that nyone undertaking ta start an industrial estalblishmeat witb a capital of at least $10,000, or empioying at.least twenty-flve workmen, 0f whom, be it noted, two-thirds miuet be Raumanians, le granted *\"twuivu acres ut State land, exemption for a turm of years tram ail direct taxes, freedam. (ram customs dues on macbiaery and raw materiai imported, exemption frein road taxes, réduction in cuet uf the carniage ut materials on State railwaye and preferential rights ta the sale of maîvufactured articles ta the Governmnt.\"' This le up-to-date State-craft, and makes aur Cana- dîan sys'tem, or lack ut system, look very aatiquated ind-eud. As a resuit ait thls policy itoumanla\"s fac- tories have been praepering. Instead ut eelling bier raw materialsý, she selle finished producte. And at the same time bier agriculture doe nat fiag, but hune- fits by a wise induistrial policy. Her exporte rasie from fifty million dollars ia 1904 ta nlnety-4lve mil- lion la 1906. It le worthy oft note that German lavestars in Roui- mania are likely to be mure than a littie uaeasy now that R.oumania le fighting the Teutons. The bulli of the peublie debt of Roumania le awýed ta Gurman banks. Hlow sure Roumania muet bave been that victary lies with the Entente may bu guessed frum the tact that she bad ta overcume gre.zt Gurman In- fluence witbln. The Goneral Bank of Roumania bu- langed ta a syndicate of Gu-mas. H0W 15 CANADA TO COMPETE for Russian Ht rade if a.t least a few Canadians do not epeak Russiani? Are we ta leave the negotiation ut orders ta Englishmen and Americans? Or are we Vo expeet the Russians ta learn English la urder ta have the privilege of .buylng our goude. .Few, if aay, Canadian univereities teach the Russian language. There are laicking evea private echoals whiere this difficuit languagu may be acquired. Sometbiag Fshould bu doue ta remedY the defect. Our aoglect of the Russian language bas an ex- cellent precedeat. Oxford and Cambridge areý unly n\u003eow giving ibis study the attention It mornts. Our centres of l.oaralag shauld not hesitatu ta equip the echoals promptly. The Departmneat of Trade and Commerce at Ot- tawa bas rendered great service ta the cause of greater trade betweua this canntry and Russia. The reports of Mn. Just, the âpeclal commlesioner, have aut only shown thet the opealng la there ifer Canadiau goods, but have indlcnted. linos ut procedure for aur would-'be exportera ta, Russia- It la for the univerel- lies aow Vo do their part. Germnany's Last Trump y OUJ MAY NOT K-NOW TIS MAN. He la at a Canadiau-thani\u003c heaveni-and yet. If ho were, or if eomiewhere we could scaru up suab a man af braine, tact aad suavity outside of mere party polluacs, tbe land we se smugly bickle with tbe Maple Leaf miglit have a flgbting chance a! a place ln the worldes work itccordiag ta ber aize. The man cocncerned lu tbis article bas -beon for twa years the moet secretly etudlous man ln ail Europe. He le not an Englishmanl. Ho le net a Frencliman. Na duh la bath France and Englaud there are mea o! as mucli brains iad ot ais miMih passionate deva- tien ta their respective cotn'trles. But riune of them look out on the world with the calm cuciçaure poise of! Hie suave man. He le not a Russan. Rassis. aiea bas patrlots of the passiunate kind; men wba would as le as not die for tholr country and luave werlds of thougbt b#lflnd thein. And ha Is.iiot anl Italian- though lie marr4ud an Italia w~if .e. and fren the pro- cepits of MacÉlavelit thé Ttalfn Ieàrned a. good deal ot the business of world statecraft. Nuw you are guessing-wha hie le. And eve you had neyer read Imperial Germaay yaul wOal once eay Prince van Buelow. That le the ýman- bas recentiy ruvieed hie Imperial GermanY Wv was arigialy part of a huge collective book and pubiehed afterwards under that titie wltb Buelaw's namne an it sa that the German peuple U5 be able ta read it. Tbe author's revisian ut thie since the war le a revelatian. Ondinarily if ane of us were asked ta eay bow I3uelow would came at that problemn o! Imperial man now we shouid say that hie wauld write N1 Menu Tekel and sa forth ail over it. Doue Rather not. Von Buelow le not sucb a man. leI preseat pliglit ut hie country of which bie was C cellor for years bil bue dieagreed with William bue no cause ta pull a long face. Deep dowfn in marrow-bones Buulcw knaws that the Empire, which liu wrobe the original book, now existe L'i1 the imagination. He knows and practically ad that eomebody bluadered. One of those somne0e le the present German Chancelior. There are ot~ And il was not sa in the days ut aid, wben Bisnm and van Moltke and va 'n Roon enginuened theFi Pruesian Wan. Na, la ibosu days thure wasn inan at the huim, and bis name wae Bismarck- Buelow regarde bim as the greatuat o! ail LOa of modemn statecra\u0026t. He as good as saYs S( ovur bis bock. He still thinke so. Hue knolws had Bismnarck lived this particular war WOUI6 rI bave bappened. Theru wauid have been n10 F cf papur, no German atrocities, no defectud Ital: Raumania declaring war an Austria, no England a buge land army la Europe. No, none Of t thinge. And if Buelow had stayed at the heini ne would thuse thînge bave bappened. Hle doue nu0l so; but in hie amendud book, as wel as l original, you can ee ItL Huelow 'believes in himseitand la th el peuple. He may have bis doubte abaut the war. and the junkers and the bungling diplomate o! inany. But hie beilevus that there le Onu l'la Germany who bas bad aothiag ta do wltb the except Vo try keepiag Italy ont ot it-and tb3.t le Buelow. The Kaiser may put down Faîkeal and put up Hindenburg; bu may rearganize his war machine on land, waten and air; but hio''l nothing tbat Buelow does not sue bebind or t Bueluw'e ml-ad compares ta wbat sncb a mal' as' self on bebaîf of the Germian people cud aiid do if bu bad the chance. or rather will do wben bie ge It. BuelOw ex tbat Germany wiil yet need hlm ftnbiggen Puri than writl ng -books. He le waitiag for the day. the puace t erme 'of Germany are under cunLsidPO. lb wili bu Bueluw that holde the German crq le the, oaly man wibb whomn the Allies c'tre, businesa, bucause bu bas taken au part lu th doe net belueve that lb sblould bave bappened, X a btgger and wlser* gamOe.than1 any su-ch a îe ready ta prove lbý the moment the bellige cotisent ta lay dowa their arme. .Aud -what' le the game that this ci-af ty, sO epuken Machiavellian knaws su weli? 18 lie muter o! unîversal and perpetu ai peace? NOt se believes la war as. prof undiy as Bernhai. 1noat this war. Ne, this wae acf the occasion watr came boa sean for Buuiow. Hu was rni for a condition ef perpoitual war, not ot Srinle navies mierely, but'o! tariffs ad tradeé truStIC3 a great Germani navy and an Invincible Gorna bebiad bbem, ta maku thatý country master wonld. Re admi ts that the war came tuasO\" cause bie uxpecbod' ta mâke the Germaii 11v formidable betore war actalally broe tbs.t a wauid bu f.urced labo an alliance-o! vasealage C ormany. With. Eagland as an ailied bune Germaay wuuld bave had no trouble dolat' world, proviling that Eatglaad~ could bave e party ta that kîn-d af domination. That dreai perlai Germany wae aillshattered by the W came tua sean for'Buelow. SomebodY ln The blunder wae the salivation of EuroP0-13 knuws lb. But bu bas puise unoug toand mnidst o'! a cruipbliig Germafly and tell tbe what Germany expects from peace teris Whe corne. Admirablia pulse! Von BueloWf, yo tiàrvel o! psychology. Yen are the onlY hbg- card tbe Kaiser bas le!t-but Qner thec brick E D T R A L",
         "THE COURIER. id After Al 'ERELY for the sake of pictorial interest, it bappens that the photograpbs on this page represent mixed farrning. The reason is that Canada bas a greater varlety 0f purely g iterests than any other country in the Our only geographical and climatic com- is the United States, -which produces bananas, Pineapples and grape-frut-i-but does flot BSaskatoons, Montreal melons, No. 1 Hard a Scotia appies. As there are four noons iu L, and ail the way from 49 deg. to 180 deg. 1-iflcluding the North Pole we have many Olf Climate and -soil. We can raise the best if flot the greatest quantity o! it, the best 'Id barley; the Ïbest apples and grapes and s-ýbut there's no end to blowing the hoin of Opta once Yon start. It would taýke a book to 7ate and ýdefine the things that are produced 3.adian farmers. The annual rwealth of the ail farm is calculaible only in the thousand mil- Nineteen-iifteen was the ýbiggest of ail big eineteen-sixteen will fail but ýlittie ýbeiow it. ee 1ose in wheat we shall largely make up in tllch this year is the greatest crop ever known nontinental area ln this part o! the world. iave but two special kinds of farmers-fruit- iand wheat-raisers. Ail the others are plain T.~he day -will corne when ail those who live land 'wl be plain farmers, beeausn the bye- ~SOf mixed farming are most valuaJble wben edInto 'beef, pork, mutton, dairy products and Intensive farming Is in its Infancy here. 011O the way; and it -is possible to make the fitinue to -yield a maximum in production oniy l1e farmer ýgets away as far as possible from Uines into mIxed farminýg. There may be parts ýýVest 'where wheat will continue to be king for tinie, owin.g to the present starcity of! water for large herds o! cattie confined te small areas. But the pure-wheat area will narrow down as the science of agriculture develfps. And the qnixed farm with proper rotation of crops wil l In e represent the highest mark of land efficiency. The Ontario farmer hauling into bis barn stili depends a gaod deal on bis winter wbeat. Belgians are experts in harvesting sugar- beets, the cultivation of which we Iearned partly from Germany--and learned it wel. Fiax la becoming more and more a staple bath East and West. This photagraph of flax-gatherers la good enaugh ta print. -The, fat and. fecund pumpkin bas been a littie tbirsty this summer, but is stili a strong note in Canadian fields. And wherever you see a one-harse laad of bay yau may be sure it la in Quebeo, where the hay..crap this year îs thé best ever. An Ontario or a Western farmer would not be likely ta use the hand rake in the hay-field, elther.",
         "THE COURIER. T the (hrSpital on the hili that French sisters Ahave iade a real, If teniporary, home for Athecir \"dear wounded,\" s'ore convaleecens loitering by the dom' la the Sun eagerly greeted a vieitor. \"Oh, madame must corne and oee our Se'rvi.an; it le hie fete day!\"l Cripples and sial forinng an escort, t\u003ebey led. ber to a lied where Pat sinlkng a yeunig Serv'ian, tbe firgt of tlie scattered arxny to reacli ur shores, bandageid, baggard from. past privations, but never loeing tbat proud tilt of the head, characteristc of bis race. On tbe quilît axnid an arabesque of sprays ot green, int.erspersed witb a few fiowers, were set out. some s.mall giftle of cigarettes, picture post-cards, a ring fashioned (rom a'bIt of shrapnel. Proudly contemplating Ibheïr work, the Frencbmen stood round, nodding and excbanging friendly grins wit'b tbe man cut off from any otber greetng. It was Twelfth Night, tbe Christmas of the G reek Cburch, a.nd the exile was keeping is f eiast. Tbe visitor left sorne money fer cigarettes and camne away -witb a choky feeling she did not wlsb to betray. During a eiinny morning stroîl on the promenade, I was drawn by curiosIty to a ben-oh where, on the reverse »Ide, uat a strange pair. One was a s'habby, unshaved old man, still show- Inig tbrougb the lbstlessness- of is dejection elgas of former loal importance. Thuddy-faced, sbort and sturdy, one recognized tbe nortbern FleTnlsh type now mentally associated witb refugees. Beside hlm sat a Bmart Y'oung iofficer, sandyhbaired and freckled. Anywhere lie inig't have been taken for a Scotch- man. ie cloeely fitting uniferi of fa wn-coloured oboth w1th facinga of crinisen velvet was vistbly fresh fram. the tallor. Hile whbite collar anad cuifs, not so conimon now as once, were sp\u0026tlesls, and bis buttons eh1ing. 1H11 peakless, fawn-coloured cap lied a jaunty tilt. At first I thougbt -hlm a'Belgian, but theïr u'niforms are la eut and materlal mucli more like our owa, and 'if iie were not a BeIgian, lie mrust bie one of the Servian off bers newly arrlved at the Engliehbhoepital. If so, the splendour of bis appearalice was dlmined by nty -happening to kaow that the -French Red Cross ladies were -buey gettIng a chanmge of undercluthing made, fur these sainse off 1- cers, and I pas4ng I w.111 note the fact that Serbs, ln ýspite of thlelir ýcold wlniters, prefer to the heavy wuulIjen undercluthlag ot French and Enlah soldiers, cottion garmeats. But the old'man was asking the offIcer questions to w'bieb lie respionded ln the most hatiIng of French. Hoe was a Serb. He bad eorne? By Nlech, 'Usbub, Durazzo, Brindisi, Genoa. Eacli word dropped like a. bead on a rosary of pain and exileB. The old man, comprélbending, sighed, and starlng wlth heavy eyes at the shores and eea, sait, wlih duli bitternese: \"Ah, mie, I corne from. the 1Belgian border. Never (bld I Vblnk ta find mayself here.\" \"Me I go back!\", the yuuth announced. The aid man e.buk, hie iend. 'l marches 8lcwly la bas, eh!\" lie said. MeanwhIle the offîcer bail been keeping charp watch on pïvthe, and whenl a nire-looking girl appeared behind the band stand, hoe jurnped Up and joined hier. As they walked at me, s was laughing gaily ai bis broken French and he was trying to ex- plain his ineaning hy wa.ving his ¶iand round his cap and then pulnting bis stick Ilke a gun at the distant moumtaîns. The old man gighed agaln and toddled off. For him there was ne pretty girl, no hope in yauth, .the first breath of s'prîng, onqy tihe dreary iistlessncss of days of exile. Mardi Gras on the Riviera. Two years ago the words meant much more, mean't crowded hotel and trains, ail Parlian upper Boheiia\u0026llim di8gorgling Ils ufl1av0iry self on Nice ln trains de luxe and PuillT«e. It meant brirj' f.ags every'where and usicl and flowers, fror,. cjnrntry wenlan's basket ___WAR SHADOW 1N SOUTH FRANC] B y ALICE JONES of humble lutIle bunches of wall flowers and mnar- I kncow tbat to-day tbere must be thousafd5ý guerites, witb perbaps one wilted rose or carnation homes where the comîng of tbe.daily paper lis awl to a buncb, to the etibereal sprays of forced llac and with sick dread, -but liere il is flot only for the great glowing orbs -of La France or Glerie de Dijon soldier tliat tbe watch le kept, but for France roses bebinil the panes of fashionable flower ksbops, invaded country. both doomed to be trampled underrloot lu tbe streeýt Itl s not so far away as tbe crow or the aerol dust. From the country woman witt ber basket to Mies tram wbere the Huns are flingig tcheilr wret tbe Gernian owner ofthIe meet gorgeous hotel, ail soldiery against that Uine of steel. were reaping tbeir barvest fram the world'is picasure- \"On ne passe pas,\" says the Frenchi poilu, atid seekers. Prices, what dId prices maotter when it tbe beaps of German dead risc bigber, a mute ai seemed a race between reclilees Rus-slans, ponderous to beavon againet man's madncss, and the WhIO grey-cladl German coupules, sinart EngIinli men and France holds its breath and watches and praY3 girls, 1French, somcwhat scorn-ful and aloof, and ex- Wake! cals thbe bugle as St. Micb;ael's cite-d American fanxlly groups of shrill childrea and on the ald town heigbts ring out five white greyýbaIred eiders as to wbo could fiing away thelr line af tbe Mediterranean -changes f rom grey bis moaey the f astest. royal purp le, and over beyond tbe Italian shore 1)4 \"It cant iast mucb longer,\" said niy wise Eibglish Bardighera an ils point the first auroral ight cý dactor, wha knows bis Rivicra so well. but neithlbr bie up -the sky. The bare Alpine peaks show a pale, ar I guessed tbat the writing for Ibis pleasure- pink against the dark n.ortli, and in the big, seeking worid was already on the wali and its days botel, now their barracks, the Cbaseursdo numbered. rouse from dreams; of mauntain village -home$, Il think it mnust be thrse years s lace a friend of w'ife or mother may already be feeding the mine, a self-reliant, much-travelled. Englisbwotaan, or settirig out for tbe firsit imass tu pray for theïr was called soutb by sudden.summoas on the Wake, ta a routine of duli task5 and eve ot Sbrove Tuesday. Her account of the leisure, or to that day that comes001 juurncy was startliag. later to Bachb oas, wliea the heavy Pacl Cook inanaged ta secure ber a berîli ia the ~ bundje of flrewood, the keittle are ShOiild nigbt express, crasnmed with Parisian daugli- 1tbe rifle grasped and the raoiel Cap ters of \u003eoy and with men latent on making carded for the blue steel belimet, aid a the most of every heur allowed theni by their co.npany trudges ta -tbe station anid the rectum tickets. Everyw'here were noties~ to that wiil bear il north away fromi the bîti beware of pickpockets, and il wua eaisy ta ses aad the s'unebiae to the sodden trenchee t-hat the warncing was needed. Jura beig4bts. Warse, far worse for tho05 Tucked away la bier corner, sad at hieurt for havinig faced the ordeal before, know tO~ the bereaved motiher s was hasteaing ta. thley are returning. the wIld horde mnattered 11111e to lier. But \"Lt is the going back that maltera,\" food muât be bail, and wben sbe ventured Ino wmn mbîn i hî e. ee id*5I the inig-er se ws amos swlytoffbermore titan la tbe past autuma months, wheTi a 81 f est. Faatastically drefflsd women and balf-drunk winter In the trenches had -te 1)e facod, W1l' men made a babel. Champagne fluwed like watsr gloom ot itis cuming bung- like a paîl over the i. and slie sas' a plate Vlirewn at a pallid waiter. Letters! calis the bugle, and -the men lotingj DInner was împoseible, se she beat a retreat witb the steps, wlho stili carry a stick as nlia a rail aad an orange. 1 farget exactly when il was stiffness of w'ounds, are galvanlzed lnto Olt ltâI sbe dilscovered a frightened EnglIsh girl, but active men la canvas fatigue blouses Pauise tbey sbared a berth together, preferring crowdlng to0 their taqks to joia the group. A strange Wde a solitude net witbaut rlsk. No deu\u003e many of tilise letter bags must held. Hore inay lie Oase, men bave died for Francs. Many ut those women serawled on fimsy, linpd paper by ths old bhave served ber ln h-ospital or amfbulance. or mother on some Pýrovenca1 bastile aiIi0J'ý I rememiber tbat carnival of the aid order. Beneath olive graves, and next ft the dainty effuslin Of heavy skies, stretched a wlld grey sea, and the rows smtyonavcbrdor8ethr i ot seata on the promenade offered sinail teimptation. ort youngIth aocti rier wete short, ful Sa we strolled up and dowa, with occasional or Nhce. lfbere 014 imother wears'the sholt' fnd1' paues o wtcha forl bttl beweeto the olives, and the prettY tawn bride es carrlages turned inta, buwers of mime\"osa Stil short\u0026r and taller, only la acoordailesWi ot red carnations.. There s'as always an out- latest f nehion, yet, «Id and youug, Ibeir hearu buret ot la'ugbter and, flower-Llirwilg when. equally true for the mi-n Who lias gene 1\u003c\u003e fl lte military car came, especialiy fi lb met the themn and bis home and their words have the white and yellew tennis club car, ladea wlth ecîio of love and prayet'. white-oiad mn and girls. The afficers were mlncgled, Chasseurs des Alps and artillery. DiUIiert cails the -bugle, as the AngOls rWl Hew many eft Vlem are sleeping tbeir îast lte noon sua shines down on thbe su,3 alee anneriber batleflelu. ew any hatel court aad he palma planted there «,or tlie are to-day facing the German hardes on he taitiOli tGrnntult. nsdettO11 Meuse? streamn the 11111e bine men,'ladmen wlth tin a' To-day the March sua alunes brllliantly over and hunka of bread. Every step and -beXch ftid the s.uow4ipWa mounitaliis, but the town border becomes a ding Place. Far rs shows no flaga or floers or music, and the man-y ut tbeff mon knewn In gloomy defll08 crowd only gathere round the evening bulletin Vosges, or on ths baa'e Gallipoi shoares. on he Mairie wall tibat telle how sways the Sieep! cails the bugle, wltl, that lingerili'o battis. And the womei gros' more and more nervouis. whall saund over many a loiiely grave la n ,,Ah, madame, 1 liad no sle-ep last ndght. I s'as hand da\"s of wirath. Wltb the sound a £ge cold ta the bealrt,\" says tbe he-avy-eyed was'ber- ness faUls ýpon he town and the ooiltry woiman, s'hese huebaad la aI Ver-dun. times, s'hen there are no late trains, nOlle My Frenchi frlead appears s'lth a reffllute amile on old Monte Garlo trains bri,'ging baclc tihe bier lips, týhough oyffl and bauds betray ber nervous- politan crowd te the hotels, aine C'clO'% ness. There ia nu nes ef ber nephew soenewhere silence ot midnight. The wavee sigh inl on the Meuse, whu) le as -ber ow'n son. rhythm on the shoare and Vhe full mooti I0h The Francs of t\"c\u003eay le as far removed frein that on France, on women s'eeping for ths ed0 two-year-ago France as le the Merovigtilan. klagdom, ig Ilor tse living, on many a nes' degr and as far exalted above lb, perhaps. dead face tiurned te the sky, but above il No oe s'ho tas not knowa il tan realize what itl hue of men keýepling ever adt~X' mieans to watch day by day the slightest variation face heat on he relenUles tee, stil, of the battls line un oue'o own country. Ia Canada, bord4sra",
         "THRE COURIER. \\Xhat's What the World Over New Phases of the World's Thinking Recorded in Current Periodicals 0 Hope tor Art . . . Germa ns DeIy Deleat . . . Forty Cent Loat . . . A SouI-Sick S tale 1O HOPE FOR ART mrge Moore, ai 63, is sure of il-unless ch'ilizat ion ends r Sixty-three, George Moore, the Irish poet, D1'8iîst and literary mon-olog-ist, declares art [dead. He bla.mes internationalism, wbich is, Fthe resul.t of too great facîity in locomotion OMMflUnication. He lamenta the passing of par- liand nationaliain which, in bis estimation, %Id 4mie art. This is part of what he said on ibJect to John Lloyd Balderston in an interview ring in the Atlantic Mon.thly for August. Hie O.JLlflg 0f the art in literature: there be a future for the English language, 1 doubt, it is in America. A great deal of 'Deeoh is Elizabethan, and wht~a is not you have Led. You are still inventing a language, while ý1 stQpped; we take what additions foreigners \"Ir Savage subjects suppîy us, but that is ail. 's ln Asuerica anotber language will arise, id to Ilterary usage, out of your patois. . . Ah, 8ee You smiling. Oui of your slang, your dia- Bflglish words both, and just as good. You bave done better, w*ben you went over the )Ic, te adopt the Sioux language. Whicb pos- the more complex and subtie grammar, Eng 1Sioux, I do noV lcnow. Probably the Sox 'dlyYeyu bud better have adopted. the Sioux, lI'rlY if the Sioux was not a written language, leUeuae pepespecially when they t r-adat llarealwysmore literary thanth ýed. If I h'ad the privilege, to leara English 1 veOUI\u003c learn it from. the peasants and be a 9Wrlter. Peasants use in their speech images Ni by what they look at; they neyer use ab- tern5, and I'm sure that the Sioux spoke fan be\u003eautifuily than any Englishman. If I ask my r15-id te find sonething 1 have lest, sbe will '1 have a look around.' If I ask you, you will try to find lt., Wbich phrase conveys the ~reasoflhng,\" I sald, \"18 intensely depressing. \"s Wý%e and our descendants to the last genera- lilSi bye dn a world without Art, for the con- ý f SO,'griation whlch you say axe necessary for iew of the British blookade. It la an 0Mnment on the \"officiai\"1 deffiais of 'Ortage In the Teutonlc Empire. -The Berlin Tag'eblutt. MOn never retlura. There are no more break up our civilization and brlng about segregation agaIn, as bappened 1,500 years ago; modemn transportation we shaîl have witb us always.\", \"No,\" a'aid Mr. Moore, \"let us end on a note of hope. I believe Art wilIl corne again, after an intervai per- haps of many centuri es. The coal mines of the wonld will be worked out in a hundred years, more or lesai, and then locomotion will stop, ail modern civilizati-on. corne to an end, and, w-ho knows, men go back to bows and arrows. I would like to lýive until t-hat happened and see the beginning of Art, for there wîll be rude strivings in the right direction in the flrst generation after communication between cominunitles ceases and segregation is restorcd.\" \"Do yen think Science will remain dependent upon coal ?\" I objected. \"By the time the mines are worked out they will have haxnessed the power of the sun, these men who'cannot use their banda.\" \"Ah, lot no net think of thýat possibildty,\" replied the nove1Ws.\"If that be true, this is indeed the Dusk of the Gods.\" GERMANS DEFY DEFEAT They Plan Io Capture World Trade by Syslemalic \"'Dumping\" GERMANY will nlot be crusbed by a military de- feat. Hem meana of 'conquering\" the world 'w-ii be unimpaired. She [s now accumuiating under \"state\" control colossal stocks of manufac- tured gooda which sbe will aend into ail countries. She will \"dump\" these goods on our markets. She wiil giadiy seil at a -las until she bas tbus put the n-ative industries of the Allies out of business,. Then she wffl raise ber prices and exercise unlimited con- trol of world commnrerce. This is in effect the st.artiing and important de- claratiori made by Prôfessor He-nri Hauqer of the University of Dijon, in an article in the Fortnlgbtly Review. We quote as follows: It would be of no avail to have worsted Germany in the land and naval conflict, if we were nlot to carry on tbe actual war by another war--4he eco- nomic. Germany bas poisoned the springs of confidence. For tbe war bas brougbt the secret to light that in tbe beart of pence Germany, for tbe preparation of war, was utilizing ber peaceful commercial methods and relations. As Mr. Runciman said net long ago: ýpeacE\u003eful pireparation as a means to a military end can neyer again be tolerated,\" the Allies are unani- mously determined. \"Vo resiat Germany wherever they find ber trying to establish political predomîn- ance in foreign countries by commercial means.\" Now there la flot the least doubt that Germany dreams of resuming this policy of invasion on the very morrow of the signature of pence. The more possible or even probable sbe considers ber mnilitary. defeat Vthe more keenly she prepares ber revenge on the econoxnic battlefield. Vanquished In arma, she will retunn te ber labours witb the old tonacity, the old perseverance, the old protean activity, the old iack of scruple. The forces will be augmented, not diminisbed, that sbe employs. Leave te New Germany to ber devicea for ten yeara; leave tbe cuttle-fisb te put out ita tentacles again-and ail our work will have to be begun afresh. Domlnated, stdfied, enringed, the induatriai and comn- mercial western nations will once more, as lu July, 1914, be forced into war. And Germany will raise, ber helmet once more. United we can offer a formjidable opposition to Germanlzed Central Europe. Our force la irresistibie. But how are we to or- gandze and utitze It? How are we to preventGer- many frem rega.lning In peace w'bat we have taken from. ber In war? The readiest answer to the question is: Let uis boycott Germany. By pro-hibitions and by dutles suf- #clontly heavy te be practlcally prohibitive, let us close te, teé Germans a market tha-t supplies 700 millions of men.' Let us 1\u003c111 German production and sale. In the heart of pence lot us continue the blockade. A simple plan, teo simple. An Idea thak saack of the man in the street, the hasty journalist. An exampie of a badiy formulated question. ht would be equal-ly impossible and in-human to cnt off tbe subsistence of a group of more than a hun- dmed million men in tbe saine w'ay as you cut off the subs4stence of the population of a fortreas. We know how diffacuit it is in turne of war to make a blockade even hall effective. Hew tho-n in time of pence couid we prevent neiutrals from revîctualling Gerrnany and fu.rnisbing theinselvea wîth German producta? Would it be to our own interest te close cornpletely A New Recruit for the Egyptian Expedition. \"lThen it le understood, Moses, that you under. take to throw back the waters of the Red Sea!' -Le Rire, Pars. against ourseives a market which in 1913 bought over 29 million sterling of French products, net f ar short of 44 million of En-glisbh and more than 79 mil- lion of Russian producta? Surely we do not intend ligbt-heartedly to \"4bore a hole in the 'planet\" ai the very hour when our roviving Industries will bave need of markets! But if we desime to seil te Ger- many we muai be pmepared to buy from ber. And where, even if we annexed new coalfields, could France procure the tons of coai that she must pur- chase w-ith ber iron? How could England replace German sugar? Are France and England to work to their o'wn disadvantage and prevoke unexampled rises of sugar and ceai? To. miln Germany would be a miotake from an- other point of view. One sbudde-a in calculating the formidable total of indemities t:hat we shall bave to exact frein Germany. She would be incapable of paying them if we proposed to extort them frein ber in the sarne way as she extorted 5 milliards from France. Germany wili be able to meet ber liabili- ties only by annual payments, ln Lte forin of pro- ducts of German labour: tons of ceai to be deliv- ered free of charge or at excoptionally low prices, machinery, gooda, etc. For many years to come Ger- many will be ln a state of Industrial servitude te us. We must needs, therefore, economize ber indiustrial .powers, for tbey will be our gage. We do not wish to main Germany. But we wish to put lt: out of Germany's power to work barin. How bas Germany become an econornic danger? 0f ber methods two bave been applied with spocial adroitness and perfidy: indus-trial penetratiop and Industrial penetratien, that lo, tbe establishmnent In France, and 1.taly of Gemman factories masquerad- ing under a diagulse of Frencb or Italian natIonality, bas profited chiefiy by te wide margin betweexi tbe duties levled on balf-finisbed products and those levied on the finished article. The system la to pre- pare ihe article in Germany and effect abroad the finisbing or adjusting operations. The abuses of this systoin ina\u003e be met by Intelligent measures of domes- tic legilatien and Intelligent customns regulations. On tbe other band, co-operatien la nece8sar\u003e' for an effective struggle against dumping. If we stand separaiel\u003e', we shahl be disarmed soparatel\u003e'. We can only triumph unlted. We must tbo'reughly comprehend the reoai signifi- cantce of Gorman dumping. Out of titis kind of ex- pedient the Germai manufacturera' unions--lcer- tolm\"-bad deveioped a marvelloal\u003e cobereni sys-",
         "THE COURIER. tcm,' an institution, a dishonourable practice of irresistible force. As long as German dumping was confined ta raw materials or haîf-fin- 1shed products corresponding to the preliminary stages of. production, the heads af finisbing industries congratu- lated tbemselves somnewhat naively on buying these goods cheaper than the German industrials themselves. \"Dump as long as you like,\" tbey would have been inclined ta say ta their West- phalian furnishers. Tbcy failed to see that, ta the inter-subordination of car- tells, or rings, thiere corresponded a high]y elaborate scale of prcmiums on exportation, whîcb rendcred it ýpos- sible ta apply dumping ta ahl stages of production. Tbey failed ta sec that the extensive practice of dumping ap- plied ta the preliminary stages of pro- duction, would have tbe effect of killing these preliminary industries in their own country and tbus of bring- ing the advanced stages, in whicli tb\" ha]f-finisbed products serve as raw material, into dependence on German industry. They failed ta see that the practice of dumping is not regular and uninterrupfed; tbat it is hiable Vo fluc- tuations; and thaf, after havlng ruined an Englisb, Frencb, Italian, or Russian industry by a proionged depression of prices, If Is in the power of German industry, est ablisbed in undisputcd mastcry of the market, ta maise its prices again. This, we repent, is a war method, a policy of conquest: If is nat a normal economic proceeding. Now we are nof ta suppose that when peace is declarcd Germnny wil abandon the systerm thaf sbe employed unscrupulously befare tbe war. Uer Immense population and bier rigorous organization have enablcd Gcrmany, at least for a very considerable period, ta maîntain a large proportion of bier working classes in bier factories. Her sal furnishes bier witb abundant comn- bustibles, certain if not ail minerais, and numerous raw materials. As she was preparing for war, she had, before the crisis, imported quantities of other raw.materials fromn abroad. For the iast 20 months leakages In the blocli- ade bave permitted ber ta accumulate mare stocks. Thanks ta, an extraor- dinary officiai organization of pillage and rapine, she bas seized, centralized, and discipllned the stocks existing in the ferritories occupied by bier armies. Thus German Indusfry bas not been paralyzed. For whom are fbey working? Evena calculating for thic calls of war, the home markets must be 'aIl but safur- ated.' Foreign markets are prnctically closed. \"We are in an economic prison,\" eays Naumann. But worlt bas not sfopped in fthe prison. ,Stocks are ac- cumulating sllently. The pencil of the German commer- cial ýtraveller notes orders ta be de- livered at tlic close of bostilities, whulo ln neuVral ports tlie Geian shlpping agent constitutes stocke of food sup- plies or of maferials, oliarters.Its car- go-boats, even \u0026onds tlicm, prepared ta selI tliem once or more, if the war lasts longer flian the German Gencral Staffs farecasf. But the piled mer- chantmen wll be ready ta take the sea as soon as the wlreless telegrapli fiaelies tlirough space the magie word \"Peace.\"1 Then, at Hamburg and Bremen the Ger'man holds wll lie full ta burstlng of products manufactured on the mar- gin of the war. \"Tbe execution of or- ders ispostponed te the conclusion of hostilities,\" as the special revlews announce ta the neutraîs. The trains are, even now rendy piled, awaiflng their turn nt flie front 1er stations. And these gigantic stocks will flood tbe world at thie very bour wlien the sudden retura ta normal ]Ife createsi an imnmense demand for mnanufactured goods of every k-id. Germiany wlh be vanquislied. but she wiIl do excel- lent business, and the war will ho liquidatcd ta bier profit. How she will fiant bier stocks Mr. Hcjckskjold explains very clcarly. The manufacturers wbo bave been work- ing during the war bave receîved most effective support. For goods deliver- cd at warchouses they bave bceh paid 90 per cent. of flicir accounts at cur- rent rates. With tbe funds sa sup- plied fhcmn tbey bave been able to pro- duce yet more goods and dispose of fhem on the samne advantagcous termis. In rcturn for these privileges tbe State bas reservcd itsclf fthc riglit of direct- ing as iýt pleases the commercial oper- ations wbich iwll follow tbe'war-.e., flic exportation of flis enormous re- serve of products. Like fliserricd masses fliat tlic German Headquarters Staff launclies ta the assault of hos- tile fortresses, a verifable avalanchie of products will be liurlcd on Uic ncu- fraI countries, ýperliaps even on the States actually ýat war witli Gcrmany. If wiIl be a colossal dumping. Lit- fle wilI Gcrmany mind selling ber stocks bclow cost ýprice. On sucb enor- mous quantities the loss will be smll comparcd witb flic advantage of emptyîng bier storebouses at a stroke and restoring ta German industry its GERMAN FINANCE German Michael: 111 got a recelpt for 100 marks. 1 gave this for a se- cond 100 marks, and I received a se- cond receipt. For the third loan 1 gave the second recelpt. Have 1 lnvested 300 marks, and has the governmnent got 300 marks, or bas bath of us got nothing?\" -Louis Raemaker, In, the Amsterdam Telegraaf. spheres of nctivity. A 10 per cent. dumping, for instance, will bave the ndded effeef of submerging and clear- lng ouf maarkets and stfling industrica ln their birfb. 0f wbat avail flie ncwv Industries tbat may bave been de- veloped ia England or France, flie -manufacture 0f, climdcal products, for example, if in flic firsf montbs of pence Geranan dumping puts aur factomies ouf of counit by this cconosnic attaqui brusque? Our factorles, once cîoscd down or bouglif up by German firmns, flic dump- ing aperafion once carried flirougli ta a finish, flic Germans wlll rcfumn fa) normalprIces and will bave no coin- pefition fa fear. If flic abject of flic actual war Is fa conque r flic markets of flic world, wc may say fliat,, even defeated, Germany will have won flic day. How -are we ta defend ourselv.es agaînsf this danger? How counferact thîs master-piece of unfair dcallng? NO, customs legisiation would be of If self efficient or 'operafive. If we propose ta chut flic fronfiers of flic Entente by heavy dufies, flic Germans will have 9niy f0 Iower fhlr sellIng prices in proaportIon. Insfead of losiflg 10 per cent. on fthe cost price, thcy wll s acrifice 20 or 30 per cent. What will this tem.porary disadvantage weigh with tbem, wben they are playing for the final and definite conques£ of the markets of the world? On the other hand, even in the times of peace, one of the constituent na- tions of the British Empire had ai- rcady studied thec means of protecting itself against these dishonourable me- thods ot competition. The 12th Article of the Canadian Customs Tariff of 1906 i.s an interesting attempt at anti- dumping legislation. It is wortb whilc to reproduce the text in full: \"12.-Whencver it appears ta the satisfaction of the Minister or of any off icer of customs ... that the export price or sclling price to the importer in Canada of any inmportcd dutiabir' article, 0f a class or kind made la Canada, is less than the fair market value thereof, as determined according to the basis of value for duty provided in the Customs Act in respect of im- ported goods subject ta an ad valorem duty, such article shall, in addition ta t'le duty otherwise establîsbced, be sub- ject to a special duty of customs equal to the difference between such fair market value and such schling price. .\" It appears certain that the Parlia- ment of Ottawa bas found an adectuate remedy for the evil. But how apply iV? one will ask. As the Dominion ap- plies it. Special agents of the Do- minion establisbed in Germany are cbarged ta verify the invoices of ex- ported goods and ta point out that sucli and such gloods are sold ta the Cana- dian buyer below the current prices of the German market. Suppose this system generalized, universalized, employed nlot by anc single State of 7 million souls, but by aIl the Allies, as well as by the ncu- trais wbo may have signed in with the Entente,.' . and tlic iniquitous Ger- man dumiping will have lived its day. But this organization sbould be aur joint abject from this very moment. For, dating from the signature of the armistice before the frontiers arc chrown open, Germnny must acccpt the establishment in hier harbourz and excporting stations of agents of the Entente invested with powers identical te those of the Canadian ag-ents. This is the mens, and the only ineans, ta save our rcviving manufac- lures of chemical products, aur meta- lurgic industries, ard thoso of m(r- chanical. construction, fromi bcing sub- mnergcd under a flood of Gerinan pro- ducts at \"given away prices.\" Let us build our dyke before thec flood bcgin,3 ta mount. Let us not hinder Germnny front living.by the work of bier hand3 -bonest work. But if we would re- main free peoplcs, let us force bier ta play fair.-Henri H-auser, Correspond- ent of the \"Institute,,de France,\" Pro- fessor at the UJniversity of Dijon. FORTY CENT, LOAFI The Price of Bread In A ntwerp -O! ler Cosis.-in Proportion WHEM I lef t Antwerp,\" sad Herman Huysmans, ln an in- terview la the New York Times, \"bread was selling at 40 cents for a smail loaf, meat brougbt $2 a pound. The potato crop this year was fine for the Germans, but nlot for thec Belgians, for If a farmer bad a crop that netted 500 ki!los lie, bad te turn over 400 kilos to the German au- thorities, mast of It Voe be exported in- to Germany for the ýpopulation there. \"The Germans have been busy for xnonths mining the country. The'mines baye been placed nlot only at strategic ,points, but In many of the cities and towins? under thec streets, and even .under buildings,. In Antwerp 1 myseif .aw tbei placing fie mines, and 1 know wbat 1 amn saylng when I tell you th'at mines arê~ now in ro-ition under the Cathedra!, Éàlace of Justice, 'and HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUNTS \\Vc arc becoining a cheque-Usni people. The convenien.ce of it en1 sures the gro'wth of the practice The simaller things of 1ie-ht shoes, books, groccries-are fl0I bought frequcntiy by cheQuE where once onîy currency passed In the smali tradesman's walle the green of yet unlaunderel banknotes is sprinikled with th tints of dlean ncw cheques. The advantages of a ohedlue ae count appeal especially ta thi housewife. It is a first aid 5ý automatically affording SYstOn ,record and receipt. We have a large numbler c ladies among our depositors, an -welcome the accounts of any wII may w1oh 'ta avail theinselves C the facilitîes wc afford thelfl. amount is too smali or toa Jar-\" CANADA PERMANENI MORTGAGE CORPORATION Paid-up Capital . .$ 6,QgC,000W Reserve Fund .... 4,760,000-00 Investments ...33,546,242,74 TORONTO STREET - TORONTr EstablIshed 1855 We own and offe #à wid. range of CAO- adian City Bond\u0026 to Yield 5% to 6.30%/. Parilar Upon R'OeU DoMmoft fflUN~TI @MTAUUUSHKD ffl HKAD oPC=. le lu»S «s !AST, O The, Line, of Communicati' wlth the County of YOrk la the Toronto and YOI Radial Railway ConlPat J'relght shlpments, rno huW large or smail, are 1S1 wltb dlspatci. b Thesýe are some of thO6 towne and villages res-Cli the \"Electric Service\" Toronto QueeUVili Thornhlil KeS-WiCk Richmond Hill JackScfl'S POIT1 Aurora , Sutton Newmarket Schomberfl \"E~xpress Dellvery et Fooi For Darticulars write O phon theTraffilo eatia Telephone-Malu 7044, 140 4617. We operafe our ow11 Department PRINTING. V'fen'8. pqitited tà ord0Tr t flfty cents fer hundedi -tP IL tarnar, PrlMi35Du sTAMPS AND CO1N-Iý PACKCAGES frea o oe di f oreg0tanue; ~'~' ent\u0026qW bu-y",
         "THlE COURIER. er great buildings in that city. The les are electrically controlled, and flined areas and buildings are u- tVhe constant guard of German soI- rs. Trenches have been constructed al r' the country, and if ever the AI- get into Belgium. and begin a drive lhe Germans tlhey are going to flnd * flghtY big job to dislodýge them. there la not a Belgian living who 'lnot befleve that the time la com- When the Germsn will be driven Il the land, but ites going to take a 'Id Of Work, and 1 think it will be a ' tirne before it la accomplished. U(anY of the German soldiers will lit that the day la probably coniing tthe allieli advance will drive Iback înto the country, but they tell you that when that time does e theY Won't leave anything stand- 4hBeliuin. Perhaps that is the flWhY tbey have mined the Ca- IraI1 and other buildings in Ant\u003e Want to say a word for the plain, Y-day German enlisted man. He o)t re-SPOnaible fo ,r the trouble in iUm andi in a lot of.instances the ;ted men are big, kind-hearted 8Who sympathize with the Bel- BIt la the German offîcer who u'Pohis1ible for aIl t'he trouble and enlisted German soldiers hate 1 allnOs as much as do the Bel- 3\" The lesa saîid about the Prus- the better. Trhe kind of men are is shown by a little incident haIPPençd in Antwerp. When the xilans were the garrison they had ires Of Ring Albert and Queen ,bethl, the latter a Ba'earian prin- hung9 In the barracks. When the s lns calme they tore dowa the \"es andi a fIgbt followed, the Ba- 'ns On one side and the Prussians le other. 1 arn sorry to say the \"aswon. L Antlwerp the Germans have re- aructed all the defences and the výa neyer so stroagly fortified as \"3 lflomlent. The Ge rmans compel 3elgians to do military construc- and when one refuses they go to 5Gl5se and tahe his wife or daugli- r' perhal)s both and d\u0026port them 5\"fllanY. 'They do not even tell to Wiiat part of Germany they Ollg, On One occasion they lined lut Of BeIgian workingmen and thOse who were willlng to work le Glermans to step forward. The l'lne ateppwd back two steps. Ih3d to utter just two words to ~ tory of Belgium 1 would sim- ~' 'Poor Belgium.' That tells the SQUL,.SICK STATE s1cfa»S Sayj Cerm ny is Menlallg A ffeÏted by Disease ' ~ICLseience in Great Brit.ain iS beginang to study Germany aal enormous sick man, a na- vill a diseage, -or, 'as the British ý41 Joural describes it, \"The Col- e Aberration of Germany.\" Now t hLflflnaY, ln the face of Rou- participation still talks of 1 Ythe article is of especial in-8 !lP'Obable that few of us have t tbeto forrn any clear conception ý tte Of mmnd that induced the t18to force on war in 1914, andi ttheni to wage il witli ah t 'very their hlghly tiraineli bar- asaPlaces at their disposai. Vter8 'have laid ail the blame 8.\"' llied Ilmperors. Othersa 4edthe leaders of 'the Germanf ýpy'n,\u0026lalY reeponsible. Others, lfe9i argued that It is the whole C \"'\"ton that le. gullty of the h )e g ambition that let loâose r f\u003e Wax twn years'ago, and c l\"Ied ail the due decencles and restraints of battle and conquest that other nations have so painfully ac- quired during the last two thousand years through the progress of civiliza- tion and experience of warfare. Dis- cussing the mentality Of the two Em- perors, Professor Lugaro dwells on the intellectual mediocrity and moral ins.ensýibility of the Austrian Emperor, to whom in the stxty-eighth year of his reign flot even the moat zealous cour- tier lias been able to attribute a single generous act, a single happy phrase, a single flash of insight; this, however, is aIl in the region of anomalies of char- acter, and does flot enter that of true mental disease. The case of the Ger- man Emperor bas already occupied the attention of a number of alienista. By Neipyp it is diagnoseli as one of mani- aco-depressive psychosis; Finot de- scribes the Emperor as a degenerate, and Becbterew as a degenerate of the Neronian type. Professor Lugara sets these diagnoses aside as fanciful, andi gives a careful discussion of hîs sub- ject's physîeal infirnilties; concluding that \"unbounded vanity, levity, masta- bil.ity Of purpose, violent obstinacy, and a vindictive and petulant temper are the endowments, neither rare nor preclous, whicb are unanimously at- tributed to hini by relatives, courtiers, and by public report.\" These are, ac- âm1 Music Hath Charms, Etc. Northclffe: \"Play up, David! It's o-obvious y-y-your fine overtures are t-tamning its s-sav-savage breast.... begins ta 1look quîte . .quite f-f riendly.\"1 -Paasi\u003eng Show, London. cording to Lugaro, the generic quali- ties of the mani; others wbicb bave been attributed 10 bim--duplicity, cruelty, megalomanic mystiicsm-are dangerous because conjoined witb the powers of an Emperor, but\"' the pres- ent war would not have bappened if these defects bad not been thorougbly In accord with the most intimate senî- timants of the German immd.\" An- alyziing Garman policy, Profassor Lu- garo remarks that the Emperor's mot- to, Oderint dum metuant, la applicable hex-e also; aIl Germany is nationalist Lnd militarist, includixig even the work- ng classes and the intellectuals, and :bronghout the nation runs a psy- Ibological disposition to Intrigue and iypocrlsy thbat ftnds its best expres- Ion, both at home and abroad, in the 'laborate and odo\u0026is Germant spy sys- em th.at la now all-pervading: \"The lpirit of the Informer la abroad;. its naliga influence oversbadows the life \u003ef every German, the working man and ha Chancellor of the Empire alike, karalyzes the most circumspect with he incubus of obscure difficulties la [le, and keeps a cbeck on the more ,udacious with the tbreat of a proces olese majaste. This espionage stffles Individual thougbt, inclines the ~erman youth to habits of suspicion, .ypocrisy, and dissimulation, gives tee to an exaggerated defarence for onstltuted axithority and eve.ry officiai tie.\" Profesor Lugaro absolves .the If you are this week a-chance Reader of the Courier and find it.\"goed stuff\" you may count upon it'that it is so regularly. It improes on acquaintance. 'Your subscription solicited. Circulation Manager",
         "THE COUR1IER. Water KinagB::er ' 4ee old home is ail right-B-UT-4it is cold--cold-COLD in the Winter. That oldhomie, can be mnade as warm and cosy as any city, inansion, by a xnodest expenditure for the installa- tion of a hot-water beating system. Steady, even, unfluctuating UU and permanent heat in al kînds of weatber and in al LLtosparts of the house. Every room, east side or north side, stili days or windy days, wet or dry, sfD makes no differe ,O the KCing Hot Water Bolers and Radiators give the warmth desired, with least cost in fuel and least attention and labor. Do You Want to Kn~ow What a Hot WatU' Hoatlng Systom W@uld Oost?-WrIte Us fo.r Particulare. K~ing Hot Water Bolers and Radiators embody certain exclusive prînciples which inake themn economical, quick, heaters and easy to take care of. Let us tell you soe of the reasons why. Write for our FREE Illustrated Booket- \"COM- FORTABLE HOMES \"-sent on request, post-paîd. ioanaer Su Sash. Concrele Reaforcsflg, Metai Lath. Steamf and zloi ae Factol1es, St. cathifInleS and Toronto. load Offce, Fn\u0026Serle.,TOROITO. 1 ney er Iho ught MACARONI Could be san Good This is what people are iiaying of this new Maca- roni of Catelli's.- It is so smooth and rich,,and has such a deliejous flavor, that it seems to be a - different dish altogether. C CATELLI qat !IlLL M4ACRONI la mrade in a big Sunlit factory-of the génuine Semolini foeur and pure, sweet milk. It îs dried in special dust proof Srooma by means of dlean air, kept at special temperature. _ý If you know Macaronionly as atough, strlngy dish, strongly ý5yj flavored with cheese, you have a treat in store when i m mse Catelli's Milk Macaroni in some of the deliciUe Inviting styles givenilaour new book-'TheGLItai CaIa'. .. Write foi a copu. THE C. H. CATELLI CO. LIMITED. j MONTREAL, * 30 '~~WWWW WW~)}/EVERYWH'ERtI That Boy of Yours la anxieus te malte extra pocket inoney, but ioes net know et a local Job ho caa secure for Saturdays. 'Wa selva the problem; we have the Job. 'Ail the. boy does la te dlali It and go to worit. TPhe worlt la made easy by our ne'w method. W. show thse boy (or any one) how ta go about getting subscribers to Cianadian Clourier. Tbe instructions are s0 plain,a boy cani follow theni. Help the BOY Tour moral support back of tise -boy will mean mucis te hlm first efforts. Back thîs Up wIttx thse help we can glve, and success te thse boy wl miean a start ln l! o toiwards nsoney malLing. Our terme are Most ilberal; a reasonable wage 1la guaranteed to every boy worker. Write, t» SALES MANAGER, CANADIAN COURIER, 181 SIMCOE ST., TORONTO. German Eniperor from any particular responsibility for the countless bar- barous outrages comnsitted by the Ger- man army; they follow, hie holds, from the theory o! \"absolute war,\" devel-. oped last century by voa Clausewitz and von Hartmann, and supported te- dayby the whole German people, ac- cording ta, which \"necessary ctruelty\" becomes a normal part o! the \"neces- sity of war.\" But thse defect of the German theory of \"absolute war\" 15 tuis, th at it postulates two conditions -violent action on thse Germnan side, defeat and terror ça thse other. Mor- ality, chivalry, and honour it entirely neglects, and this neglect must, lie thinks, bring the Central Powers ta grief, quite apart from the probabilîty of their defeat la battle. Professar Lugaro enumerates a !ew of -the grasser German outrages o! civilization, adding that \"as the cul- mnination o! cynicism, they are net ashamred ta copy from the professional thieves a certain stercoraceous rite, which bas le!t its filthy traces ln al the villas and castles occupied even by the flower o! the German staff.\" -Î threat o! the repetitian o! this rite ha-- since been used ta deter certain Spani- isis owners of Belgian properties frein signing thse manifesta of the Spanish Roman Catholics. Lugara comment3ý on the moral poverty and obtuseness ai Place: Siberia. Thie: Future. First Convitt: 11I've killed mnY mnother. What are you in for?\"y Second Convict: \"Il was one of the Hohenzollern\u0026.\" -Budilnlk. Mascow. the circulars addressed la thse earlier days of thse war ta the civilized na- tions, especially the Italians, by thse German intellectuals (first by thse 87 elect, then by thse 125, of less repute), and on the mnegalomania or mad pride o! the German Znmperor and his peo- pie, based on thse enormous secret Ger- man preparations made in the decades preceding 1914 for a war ta be forced on at tse opportune moment. Accord- ing ta the German militariats and poli- tidians, tisee preparations could not fail ta malte certain thse speedy subju- gation o! Europe. Lugaro does not ac- cept the attempta o! clinical psychiatry ta explain this megalomania; it la not a psychosis, eltiser imperial or na- tional; it la not a collective delirium o! thse German nation; it la not a para- noa. The real delinquent la not a man, but a nation-Germany. The Germans fail because they cannot un- derstand that a people may possess a hundred universities, a thousand labor- atonies, innumerable perfect work- shopa, a flourishiag commerce, and, notwlthstandlng aIl that, be bar- barians. They cannot succeed la com- prehiending a trutis whlcli for otiser nations is elemeatary-lamfely, that civilizatian does nat consist la know- log, but la thse manner o! actilng. It la not a matter of science, tec-hniqlue, or 'mechanism--whiih may serve bad ends as well as good-but'o! senti- mnents whîch reveal themselves la ton- duct. The qualities o! the German spirit are materiai strength and pro- digious egotlsm; lis bistory lias no ex- amples of generosity, of coute\u003e'5 o! sacrifice to a disiaterested ideal heroes are tribal chie! s, brutal diery, andi pedants. Such is proff Lugaro's diagnosis; Germaly is a gerous nation, suif ering from a cc tive aberration, and now 9hor'5 final psychological result-a truc Iirîum. The necessary treatmnelfl 1 be dictated by the danger of tl1iý lirium ta otlhers. H-ow great this ger is the whole world now* Rf The first task of civilized Europe subdue Germany by force, withOU1t ing any attention to hyPcril clamours for peace, for as tbe catastrophe approaches the el' delirium o! persecution is sure t' corne more and more acceiituated Can Germany be cured? Vhe. nosis is very doubtful, says PrOf' Lugaro, but not hopeless. GIr02a illusions are salutary even tO noîacs, and collective delirium5' more easily dispefled than !\"di;' Even grave moral defect's,' indelil individuals, miay be corrected whole people which has at its dis ages la which to reform its cha1rî Let us hope, but not delude ou1rS that the reform. can be rapid. The Laugh-Lifl E VERY timre the Russian d \"checked\" they get a minuLte to breathe and see how they country as far as theyvé gensO. New 'York Herald has reduced it teoane cent. No daubt it's worth i We read of an aeroplane that 111 miles an heur. It must have bO Jng down. New York doctor was le! t $10~ the will of his servant girl. Ilo lu good wages, that doc. Why stick te that old Word *'te ture\" after its awful display Of in'1 ance during the part sommer'? A London judge ham fined the, of 'Pain.\" No, dear, not for writ book. A man in Muncle, mnd., played tl for 3,005 hours. They must ha8ve 11 In that place. Charie Chapln films were iiut on account of the Infantile Para y demic lu New, York. Charlie'Elf fering fromn paralysis! We notice somne discussion inl t enican press Of ,wSnmen bo\"e5\" they were somnething xiew and St A particular ,preacher bannedl In his church. Hie was rigbt. lar dance halls have too mucis C tien se it la. There's a naïve tOuch in the~ given by a noted chsef, wbe1 h'O \"Firat, if you are In fair cireC se procure a five-pound ponterbUSO France retired 17 of hen gelions1 Reserve. What would FraonCc lot of hononary colnels fi0atkng khaki? There, ls work that womOO l11 The rat-caitchers of Lonldon~ excused frein anmy service becS1 stîtutes cannot be found for tlV Montrealisl talking o! nI4Uht~ Have they enough dark 1'e eastern clty? 11%~ AM BIGUOUS. people do not always mo ý' J they sayr--or write. As for ilt ittile advertlsement Ia 'the W1nni Prees: 'Slders ifwhose hial lag, would like another eolS good houle, evelry conveOnlO1e. WANTS OF THE SX It's true as weil asCnca Thls siIIy limte sallY, io That womnan wýants thO balw But man-he Wants t'e b NOT WANTEV. Pancha Villa la saldi ta lnaet own hife, NcobodY eIao seew~ HO' swelcoene.",
         "THE 0QURIER. li8h girls engaged In making pianos. England lias been In the habit of lm- Ing thousands of pianos every year from Germany. Engllshwomen wlll see that Engllsh homes are provided wlth British pianos even thougli they pro- duce German music. IUSIC AND PLAYS 10 Conduct GIee Club. I3M Understana Ibat Mr. Ernest Seitz is about te organize a Glea Club, presumably o! mix- ed voices, to giva performances thle cOmning season. This is a new LI'e' for a solo pianist. As a rule a\"tl5'ts know and care littie abou t or even. vocal, music. The piano 'n 4l8 OWn veculiar way, but lune tien 411 a voies is a very different and tha polypharic tone-produc- achoir singing Up to eighltpart IY l a much different problemn iYthing In the solo voice. The expraseion in a choir bas very lit- crlnuwith that 0f the piano. onea is Just about aIl the other Is ha1 Vlolln is much more closely re- Othe vOice in ail (matters of cras- diOllnuando, tone-colour, expres- clLm'axes and general emotional ber', On the piano these subîleties re5ai0n are largely Indirect. Yet s go9od deal in the piano that ha appllad te the voice, attack, do, leglato, staccato, rhythmic ut- eurmula.îlva and suddan climaxes. le dubt Mr. Seltz wlth his mnas- tl' Piano bas observed aIl these '1clmore. le may also remem- \u003cIn ele0f the greatest choral con- \u003cI0f bis- daY la a piano maaster, the n Ili1'Iolw. and that for years the loll and the tone-colour of the SOlnChoir were iargaly those of 110, irl the taaching o! whlch Dr. sen1t m3uch of bis time. Just what Works Mn. Seltz aims to produce, t 1e choir ha will organize we kto.But no doubt In malters of 'lya the Work of tis naw chorus d'Stinctýive Seltz neyer does in fralctjufl. We shahl watt and SDjavles In a New Role. h 'WAIp\u003c»RD DAVIES, onganist n t e Temple Churcb in London, ýt1q5e 0 music t0 Everyman, tha lW i G Major and many other \"liPortance in modemn Englisb Shacorne an organ4zer of music 1 Rritish soldiers. An- article w\"lOrnill in the N. Y. Evening \u003e' ai-azlne describes what Ils done. Out of these camp t5Y he wrlter, týhere has de- ttlya ovemnent of more par- '~u.Somaetimes Dr. Davies g ýood Plan to make part o! the sor of informaI slnging lesson. Da'ty on tha platfurm would In- el1mtafaillar song and get the audience te sing it aller themn until they came to know it fairly well. lie Ihen conceived the idea of organizing regi- mental choira among the men in varlous unita. A choir of thýis ki-nd, In bis opin- ton, would ýbe \"a real godsend\" on fes - tiva occasions, such as Camp concerts and other entertainments; in boums 0f en- forced idleness when no other corporate effort W\"s possible;* on the ýmarch, when thera was mo band or when the band was tIred, and at regimentai services. The collections of words and music that Dr. Davles bas prepared for the use o! these mili'tary choîrs are very inter- asting reading. The songs in which everv one Is to taka part are mostly arranged for thrae voices-tenor, baritone, and bass. The editor bas wisaly subatituted Englisb for the conventional Itailian in bis acconpanytng instructions. Thus, \"God Save the -Ring\" Is te be sung t'roadly and ferventy, \"The Marseillaise\" martialiy and with dignity, \"Scots wha ha'e\" fervently and with strong rhythm, \"Anniae Laurle\" quietly, \"The Bay of lhiscay\"l vlgorously, \"'Nobody knows the trouble I gee, Lord,\" re'flectlvely, and \"Ban Backsta y\" hilaricusly HIe 'bas no sympathy wi'th tha cbau- vinismn that aittempted, early in tha wam to banisb ail German music frein the con- cert-rooms of London. Nor does he re- gret tira fallume of the schemes to ex- plocit British patriotism by \"booming\" native Composers who bad been unabla to secura a vogue In tIme -of peace. Peo- pie stayed away from these concerts. \"And why shouldh't they?\" asks Dr. Davies. \"If they are angry with Germany, Is that any reason why they should listen te. music they don't want ?\" The fallacy of the ultra-ipatriotic logic could not ha more pungently axposed. Apropos of the relation of national feel- ing -t music, I snentioned to Dr. Davies a statament I had seen attrlbuted to Fritz Krelsler In some Amnerican paper. Kreis- ler was reportad as saylng be was sorry that the feeling arousafi by the war wud prevent bis appearing again. on the con- çert platformIn l Lqndon. Ha had ai- ways enjoyed playing In England, and it was a real regret t\u003cs hlm that the British public would no longer welcoma hlm after tIha war. Dr. Davies dilsmlssed Ibis ap- prebension w'ith a vigour that couid scarcely hava 'been axcaeded by one of bis regimental cholns In si'nglng \"The Bay of Blacay.\" \u003c \"No,\" ha daclarad moost amphaticaily: 'thse EniIglsh peopla ara nutl ika thal. I think they ara forgIving ..t a fault. If 'Kreisler cornes baes Afler the war, be'lli ba chaarad to tha acho, Mind. I don't .say that if Richard Strauss were to corne here lie wauld be cheered to the echo. But Kireisler has fought for his country, and if he cornes here after thýe war he'l draw biggar crowds thain he --ver drew before.\" What of the Music Hall? IN the Fortnlghtly Review for August William Archer writes on The Music Hall, Past and Future, Hie is Inspired to do so by a perusal of a book by H. G. Hibbert, called F'ifty Years of a Lon- doner's Life. lias the music hall, says Mr. Archer, In its fifty-odd years of high-pressure activity, produced elther a culture-poetry or a folk-,poetry bin any way commensur- ate either with the effort centred upon it or with the ruin il bas wrought? The answer, though almost incredible, mnust be unqualified and emphatic; the mnusic- hall lias produced nlot onue single lyric which has any chance of living in the na- tional memory, except perhaps, as a mon- liment of vulgarîty and inanity. I speak, of course, of the words: the fate of tunes il is 'impossible to prophesy; but 1 can remember none which seems to me to take even respectable rank as a melodic invention. That question, howeve-r, may be left to experts-and to time. What is certain às that the whole music-hall movem,ýnt has produced flot one--liter- ally not one-pece of verse that can rank as poe.try of the 'humblest type, or aven as a really clever bit of comtc rhyming. If we include negro minstrelsy among the branches of muîsic-hall activity, we, may perhaps find a few sentimental dit- ties that are Iikely to survive, but ne-gro minstrelsy, though uItimately affillated to the music-hall, in no sense grew out of il. I fancy, too, that almost aIl the negro songs of any menit were of gen- ulnely Amarican orîgin. T 'he oaa thing is thaýt the music-hall seems to have killiad a genuine vein of lyric fa)culty In the English people. * *0 Georges Vigneti, New Arrivai. H A.MBOURG aetlvities are once more reconstruotive. The newest appoint- ment to the faculty is that of Mr, Georges Vigneti, French-11talian vionn virtuos, Who, is te carry on 'the work so ,auspiciously begun by Jan Hambourg ha- fore ha movad te New York. Vigneiti le a pupl of Remy, the teacher o! Thibaud, an exponent of the bruilant French-Bel- gian school of playing. He has been sev- ,eral years -before tha public and has played in both Europe and Aijmerica. He is a Product o! t-he Conservative National In Parts and the Academy of Music in Paris. which Is under the guiding hand of Vincent d'Indy, with whom, Vigrieti studied syrnsPhonlc and ehambar music, He Is the great-granasun of Pietro Vlg- net!, who in the 181h century was first violin soloist in the private orchestra of King Louis XVI. and Marie Antoinettte. HIe atudied opera under the director of the Grand Opera National de Paris and was for one year violinist of the Con- oerts-Colonne. Hie bas toured the chief cIllas of France with the Schola Can- torum Orchestra and the famous singers o! St. Gervais under Diractor Charle.s, Bodas. Ha bas playad oflan In the salons of the MarquIs Tornielli, late Italian Amn- baseador In Paris. In the perlod 1908-11 Mons. Vigneti mnade a musical tour of the world Playing in most of the civllzed countries as walI as in the United States, where In 1912 he sattled In New England, the birthplaca of bis mother. Mons. Vigneti waIll arrive In Canada durlng the naxl few days and will at once bagIn tha work of carryig on the tu- tonial cbamber-muslc and solo virtuosa programme lnaugurated by the I-- bourgs soma flva or six years aýgo. Ne- golla,tlons are aise completed now for the engagement of a celebrated young Rus- sian piano peda.gogue who will step Into the large aind difficult shoes of the late Professer, Monday this waak Mr. W. O. Forsyth relurned to the City after two montbs spent near the Gulf of St. Lawrence. Ha ls now Ini his studio, 220 Yonge St., for the receplioei of puplîs. Mr. Frank Wielsmnan baýs bean summer- ing as usual In Muskoka. We regret to learn tbat Ini the violent aclivities of cap 'ife-Frankc always dIld do things wlfls a gust-o-ha spraîined bis ankla. This, however, wlll not pravent hlm from ha- ?ang In bis studio at the Toronto Conser- vatony of Muslc any tlmae nevw for the prosecutlon of thse seaauns 'work, The A. B. C. of Fuel Saving Adlways Buy Coal fromn The Standard Fuel Co. and 80 secure quality, quantity and service in your coal orders. The Standard Fuel Co. of Toronto, Limited 28 King Street East TeL Main 4103 MEE COUPA\"T WrS TEE COAL Am» PHOTOGRÂPHift. Studio: 10 1 -King St W.at PAUL WELLS concert, Planlet and Treacher. -Toronto Conservatory of music- HARVEY ROBIB P 1 A N 1 S TTroronto cosratorf DELBERT R. PIETTE Specialist Teacher or Modern Pianoforte Playlng. Studio: 684 Bathurst Street, RICHARD TATTERSALL Organist. OId St. Andrew'a Presbyterlan Studio: Canadien Academny of music only. Residenoe: 347 Brunswick Ave. Phone Coli. â401 FRANK S. WELSMAN Planlst. Studio for Lessons at Toronto Conservatory. of music. Residence: 30 Admirai Road. ALBERT DOWNING Firat Tenor Adenac Quartette. Soloist Blowr St Pres. Ohur\u003cih. IMuO DIr. Doveroourt Collage of Kuglic Ph-n COllage 3153, Jet. 274. W. O.FORSYTH Pianlat and Teaober of the Hligher Art ot Piano PlaYing--ComPlete Traiin for Concert Room or Tea.chin. Âd\u0026eu: Care NVOrdhelmers. Toronto. ATHERTON FURLONG A Brtitant Season Kow Openlng. 159 Collage et, Te\u003cephoae Conlae 11#2",
         "THE COURIER. Address ail correspondence to the Ches Editor, Canadlan Courier, 30 Grant St., Toronito. PROMLEM NO. 72, by I-1. W. Bettinani'. specially contibutted te the \"Courier\" (Task). Black.-Elght Pleces. White.-ElOIit Pleces. White te play and mate In three. Probleni No. 73, by A. Ellerman Seecnd Prize, Good Com-panion Club, Mardi, 1916. White: K at KBsq; Q at KR4; Its st Q34 and KR6; Kts at KB4 and K.Kt3. Blac'k: K ai K4. Rs at K7 and KB2; Bs at QKtsq and QBsq; Kts at K8 and KBsti; Ps at Qal, QG, Q7, KM,. KKt2 and K.Ktb. Mate In two. SOLUTIONS. Probleni No. 69, by W. Pauly. 1. R--QKt7! K-K4; 2. R--KtG, K-B4; S. P-B3, K moves; 4. Qý-K4 or Kt4 mate. 1.... -K3;, 2. QxP, K-B3; 3, P-B4, K moves; 4. QK5or Kt5 mate. Probiemn No. 70, by M. F. J. Mann. 1. K--B4, KtxR dbl. ch; 2. KxP mate. 1 .K.... Kt-B3oh; 2. B-QG mate. 1 . QxQ; 2. KCxXt mate. 1. Q-B4; 2. QxQ mate. 1.Kt inoves; 2. Q-.R6 mate. Probleni No. 71, by Karel Traxier. 1. Q-R7, Kxlt; 2. B.-B4ch! K moves; 3. Q--Q3 or QB7 mate. 1 ........B-Kt8; 2. B-BS! Kilt or Kt--B2;. 3. Q-BS5 mate. 1. threat; 2. B--Q7ch, KxR; 3. \"-3 mate. A REMARKAB.LE 014BARANCE THEME By F. Kohiln. White: K et QB6; R at KKt6; B at KBeq; Kt at QKtfi *PaE at K4. KG and K11. Bdack: K at KKtsq; Rs at KRsq and Kt2; Býs et QB6 and K\u003cBsq; Kt at KCKt2; Ps at K2, K4, NB6, KB7 and KRZ. Mate In seven. Oiou.sly thie mearis of qnating la by the Bishap at »7. White must tirst clear a patli ly the removal cf bis Knight and KAng. TPhe play comemences 1. K-Kt7! thres.tening 2. X-118; 3. Kt-R7; 4. R- ICîS a.nd mates on the sixth. (79\u003ee Kndg'ht covers flrst at R7, or the King would eventually 11e sulbAect to a check froin Black's Queened Psewi at QRS.) Black defende by 1..... B-QS! If now 2. 'K-R8 ' thoýn- 2..... B-Wt; 3. KtxB fitalepiate. Tble defence 1ý... B - QG, liowever, permIts procedure by 2. Kt-_B7, the maiet remar!kable point In ibise remark- able'compoeitiofl. White then tbreatens 3. K-BS; 4. B.-KtS, P--Q. 6. B--K8, Q- R3oh.; G. KtxQ andi 7. B mates. if Black continues 2 ......... B-KtS, tis line of play wil nlot answer, liowever, on aocourit of 3 ........ Bxt But 3. B-KxtS i5 feasible at once, as taie diaastrous check froffn the Queened Paîwn et QKt8 la conse- quently net fortjhcamfng. This brings un- te0 the liglit thie reason why 1. Kt--B7 dosa net cook. Black -would relply 1iý......,.B-6; 2. K-Kt7, B-R4 and iow 3. K--BS, or B-Kt6 wl) of course not aval. COBENIHAGEN TOURNAM.ENT. 1 n International tournameft at Copen- hagen has resuîted In a victory for the ~wei-known Swdso master Paul Johner by a score Qf! tive wlIns out o! a possible seven. The other pr4ze-winnfirs, D)r. 'Krauýe (Denmiark), L-oweniborg (Sweden) andi Marchiand (Rollandi) tled for Sati., 3rd. andi 4th. places, witli -4ý gaines each). Johnei' wae a visiter at t.1e Toronto Oees Club\u003e one a!ternooii In Septesnber, 1910, andi met ton p layera in simultsaieous play, wnnflg elght gaines andi losikg two, te J. S. Morrison andth 1e 4.ate veterai' W. Flint Jonies. Follo~wiag tlAs Johner tnga,ed elevon players ingly kn raipiti play with a resuit c4 9 wins, I loss and 1 drnw, In thse mraster's favor ek.bý The folkowing la an interest4ig gaine fr\u003c\u003em the. tournamolit, with notes, abridg-ed, t.rcm the Londont \"Fle)d.\" J. 2 (oK 1. P-6 4. Kt- 5. BPx 6. P-I 7. B.-.) 8. Cast 9 * B-I 10.* BxB il. I,-] 12. P-I [3. Px.I 14. Q-I 15. Q-I 1G. P_. 17, Q-I 18. QR 19. Q-I 20. BXB 21. 13-I 22. P-1 23. P-I 24. PxI\u003c 25. P--\u003c 26. PX.P 27. R-I 28. K-I 29. P-I 30. Q-4 8.1. K-1 32. KXIF 3.\u003e K-I Queen's Pawn Opening. Wbdte. Biscli Gierslflg P. Johner enmarpKl (Swltzeriafld) 1. P -- Q4 .3Çj3 2. P-K3 843. Kt-KB3 .B3 4. P-B4 P 5. KPXP Kt3 6. Kt-B3 \u003c(2 7. Bý-K3 les 8. B-,K2 (t5 9. Kt-Kb 10. QxB 3sq 1L. R-.Qsq 12. KtxKt t 13. Casties (214. B-K.Kt,5 \u003ct5 15. P-B5 (4 (a) 16. P--QR3 ..t6 (b) 17. PxLP -Kaq (c) 18. R_-Q4 (d) \u003ctsq 1,9. BxKt 20. P-B4 \u003c2 21. P--QKt4 13 22. P-KG (e) 34 23. 'KtxP (f) t 24. RxP (g) 3R4 25. Q.-B4 26. P'xP 3327. R-Q7 sq 28. Rý-Wsq Sq29. Q.--Q4 t84 30. P-R3 Fsq 3lý RxE.oh 32. Q--Q6o 33. R-4sQm (h) 34. R-leq 34 K-R2 W1 35. Q-Kt2 35. P-Kt5 36. Q-.K5 \u003cA) 36, P-B6 37. QxKP 37. R-Ks(I 38. QxR 38. QXR 39. Q-_K2 (k) 39, Q 1(t8 40. Q-Bsn 40. QxQcb 41. KXQ 4L P-Kt6 Ilesigns. (a) A good move, but white does not follow it up correctly. ('b) A mdsetake wb.ich 1oses a Pawn. The correct continuation was 17. Q-1t4 Ètiill bearing on the Queen's Biebop) Paçn, fol- lowed, if Black plays 17 ........ PxP?, by 18. R-Ksq, threateig 19. xt--Q2 and regaining the Pawn with the better gaine. if Black plays 17 .........QxP, then 18. ,Kt-KS, Q-.B4; 19. Ktx.Kt, PxKt; 20. P-B3 winnlng the Bis4iop for twoD Pawns. \u003cc) If 18. Kt--Q2, then 18. P-K6; 19. PxLP, (if 19. KtxP, Bleck would wifl the exchiange by là.......B-K7), QxPoh; 20, R-B12, Kt-K4!, threateniflg Kt---Q6 and winning thie exchange, for il 21. B-Bsn, then 21. Kt-BGch! (d) Tbreatening to wdn thie Queen. (e) 'Ple on]y move. If 22 .........R- Ksq, then 23. PxP, PxP!; 24. B-B3, re- gaining the çawn witii the better gaine. (i) Tie sacrifioce was al.most forced as white was threatenifl BB3 alter whih he woirld prc4mbly have 'won the lsolated Pa,wl in a fetw moves and would tiien have .had the ,advantage. \u003cg) BIs.ck bas nov. three Pawns fer hie piece and Wbàte's game is very cramped. (h) 'Phreateliig Q---Q7ch. (i) Black bas now a forced wdn by Q- K5. e.g., 34 ........ Q-K6; 35. R-KBsq, P-=K7; 36. R-B2, Q-~R8ch; 37. lixi-, Qx1R, threateiig mate In Vwo. Or 36. R.-.KKtsq, Q--Q5; 37. KxP! R- ]Ksqçh; 38. K-Bsq \u003c(not 38. K-B3. Black mates in two). QxQRob;, wiinning easily. Or 36. QHQxRi; lie. QxRdh, K-FR2, tbreateni.ng Qý-B7cb and aise Q-fflèb, to 'whicli there is no valid de-fence. (j) if 36. QxP, tihen 36. -B6 follo'wed by 37.... Q-Q7c, wins. (k) The losing znove. R.-R, Instead, would bave drs.wn. THE REAL THING. FEARING THE DRY SPELL. Now that the United States tennis Now Peirgus,;on and Lucas chaupion bas beenl beaten by a Jap, our Show signa they'd like to crib it- Amf,.r1C5,.n cousins are at last Up againet They fear that prohibietion the reeii thing ku the way of a yelIoW Might possibly prohibIt.. pe.ril. u 1 WH ICHI WAR NOTES. Thse Prussian Guards were de- scribed as the \"crack\" Germaen army orps. Perhaps that's why thbey broke before thie British push. A BrItis soldier naamed Cbtck boas won the D.-CM. IV'E qulte dlear tihat be's net as meek as lis naome. Thse Kaiser says lie andi hie men wll bang tog'etber. We would lie saeifiýed Il the' Wore t.0 bort geparatly. Thse arown Prince bas issued a detial that be lias been wounded. Ho seea to be always busy deny- kng saiething. Those Mexi cana amo getting alto- geith.er too fresh. 'Lhey tire the)r gunes off se often et nkght that thse 'Yankee militia cen't get a gooti nlgtst's sloep. The KaLser la trying ta direct op- oratIces on bath easteri' andi west- ern fronts. Eventuly hoe mey 9t.\u0026' rlgbt in 1Berlin and do tisaI. Thoe Britishi give 5aan te their sol- iere SI' tins, but il seema that the ,Am'sican warrlors get 18. In their miachine guns. Since they got conscription An 'Britain everybody but Lloyd George andi Mrs. Panikhurst seem ta ho fightl.ng-wits evory'body else. THE BOY WAITED HIS CHANCE. A d'Istiguished theologien was Anvtted ta nxeke an atidress before a Sunday sobool. Thse divine aipporently forgot the nature of bis audience, andi spoke of toc, de a chaectr'for Skie aoriage juvelule mîmd te oonprefse\u003cd. At thse concluelon tise su8perIltOTInt acc'erding ta custoS, roquested nomle mIe hI' thie echocil to Trne ain aoptOpIlate bynue teO be sang, \"Bing 'Revive 'Us Aan' sotO boy Int the roor of the i00fl1. In the circular sent: out by a Po£triotie Asscociit4on in Montreal thies staitemejit As made: 'Tts titre\u003cctors embrace saome of the leadl.ng business mon of thie city.\" New here' s wbat we wsrrt te know- are tboee directoire male or female? X-RAYED. Soins people cai. bo esily seen tlirougii, and othern»-you can menroly see throqigl their sumniser oStuSes. HER TOUCH.L 'Il do go like te bear youxr wife play thse plano.-sbe lis an excellent toueh.f \"Yes--1 k-now. I somietîmes tbink of it wbesi I got dcswn towi' and put my hand li ny pocket.' ON THE ATLANTIC COAST. \"Mother. may I got oust ta swiffn. ~Yee. my de.rling daugliter, But look out that a shark doesn't trtin youïr 11mb If yen veinture 880t thse wa.ter.\" THE PARALLEL. \"Wby aire the dutle chape wbo go te0 the seaside resogits i summer timne lîke thse wavee; 4hey watoh?\" ~'Well, thew corme up In gireat style, malte a big sple.eh for a minute or two, and go away broke.\" BLESSING NO. 41144. Addt list of tUse t\u003eo be thenrkful for- thse pav\u003ces aortage has nmaterlally boal- ened tse inumber of novels e be 11e sued 1115 fal. HI4ES IT. Thse Kaiser As ireporited 9A s«aying ttat thse mais who etaz'tod thse war haz a groat loaA on hus wcelnce. At lejst he 11e gl)n*i.g tO roe) It! THE LONDON DIRECTORY (Published Annually) enables traders throughout the Worl\u003c to communicate direct with Eflglish MANUFACTURERS \u0026 DEALERS in each class of goods. Besides beil'l a complete commercial guide to Loi' don and its suburbs the DirectOrY COfl] tains lists o! EXPORT MERCHANTS with the goods .tbey ship, and th' Colonial and Foreign Marktets the supply; STEAMSHIP LINES arranged under the Ports to wbl\u003ce they sail, and îndicating the aPPr03ý mate Sailings; PROVINCIAL TRADE NOTICES of leading Manufacturers, Merchjallil etc., in the principal provincial t01W3' and industrial centres of the V.nlte Kingdom. A copy of the current edition wi]1 b~ forwarded freight paid, on receiPt Postal Order for $5. Dealers seeking Agencies can a, vertise their trade cards for $5, larger advertisementS from $15. THE LOMDON DIRECTORY GO., LtC 25,Abchurch Lane, London, E-C. I CawthraMuock\u0026CO. Meubers of Torento Stock E:icang Brokers and Bankers 12 KING STREET EAS~I TORONTO, CANADA CADIX ADR!S-CAWLOCL TrOROIMT Up-to-ate business meVh0ids, backed by an un-broken record of f air dealing wlth ite polic' boliders, have achleved for tlie Sun Life of Canada a pilnt menai growtb. More than 166,000 o! its poli cies are now in force for assurT ances totalliug over $265,00, 000--much the largest amnoull carrledby any Canaffian 1f coInpaiy. M-An Orv, ONT110 JUST FOR BOYS Tis citer in for Yeu. bys; body lane. I waiit .WlàeSawW boys In every town and vdl3\"e Canada--a1 over. want you because ou eani me maire saMes for je11 Caa Courier. you want MY PROPOSTl because It wIll show You 0 mnake moneY. MY GUARANTEE, TOO. 1- positivly guarante0Yu jeant S0e a day. Wrte me In and I wll teD yen 110w. Yeu . learn thi. 110W and thon 90 doit SÀLIN3 MANAGER, CANADIAN COURIE",
         "THE COURIER. A, ~ ~ ~ ~ À À K À\u0026 ÀLÀ Ké ý ýd À A\u0026 À ÀL Id À\u0026 À À ÀA À\u0026 ~v ~ 'v'y' ' ' 'w 'V 'v 'v lu, vý 'V\"VW'y\"V J. Walter Thompson Adverti*sing'Agenc.yelI changes name and ownership F RANK G. SMITH, A. J. DENNE AND HIAROLD A. MOORE announce that, hav- ing purchased ail the capital stock of the Adver- tising Agency known as \"J. Walter Thompson Company of Canada, Limited,\" they have changed the name of this Company to SMITII, DENNE \u0026 MOORE, Limited. The change is chiefly one of ownership, as the personnel of the active management remains the same. Mr. Smith will, as formerly, have principal headquarters at New York, Mr. Denne at Toronto, and Mr. Moore at London. The new owners take pleasure in further an- nouncing that the Company's clientele also re- mains the same, and this embraces many of the most noted Canadian, Buropean and United States firms. Correspon-dence is invited with any adverbteer or pro- spective advertiser who seeks an increased market for bis product in Canada, the United States or in Europe. Address us at Toronto, L on don or New York. Smnith, Denne \u0026 Moore Limited GENERAL ADVERTISING AGENTS Lumsden Building, Toronto. LON DON: CAXTON HOUSE, S.W. NEW YORK: 1463 BROADWAY. Representative in France and Continental Europe. Société' Européenne de Publicité, 10 Rue de la Victoire, Paris, Francew y y y ' w I ýV 4 4 '' 4w1q4 Smith, Denne \u0026 Moore, Limiited, are flhc Advertising Agents for soute of the most important Advcr- tisers in Canada, numbering among their clients the follow- Penmans, Limited Swift Canadian Company \"Mennen's\" Crosse \u0026 Blackwell, Limited Dominion Messenger \u0026 Signal Co. Bank of Toronto Trinity College Schooi Dodge Mfg. Co., Limited \"*Eno's Fruit Sait\" G.N.W. Telegraph Co. \"Paris Pate\". \"Ingersoil Cream Cheese\" Moffatt Stove Co. \"Milton Brick\" \"Brock's Bird Seed\" \"Wîncarnis\" \"Thermogene\" \"Willard's Chocolates, Ltd.\" -Harold F. Ritcbie \u0026 Co. \"Gilson Gas Engines\" Maxwells, Limited \"Nugget Shoe Polish\" Western Sait Co. and many others. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -",
         "THlE COURIER. THREE MONTHS FROM NOW In November, open garden delights are at an end for a dreary 1 five or six months. But the owner of a glass gardLen knows no such f~ Swinter. It is perennial spring timne and summer when he opens the door of hîs greenhouse.tI At lenst you can find out the styles of greenhouses available for your hame-a.nd the prices. S Write Dept. C. GLASS GARDEN BUILDERS, LIMITED Ju 201 Church Street, Tranaportatîon Bidg., St. James e\u003et., Toronto. Montreai. Factory-Georgtowf, Ont. THE CANADIAN BANK SIR EDMUND WALKER, C.V.O., LL.D., D.C.L., Prooldent. JOHN AIRD, General Manager. H. V. F. JONES, Aem't. General Manager. CAPITAL, $15OOOOOO RESERVE FUND, $13,500,000 SAVINGS BANK ACCOUNTS Interest at the current rate la aflowed on ail deposits .,f $.00 and upwards. Careful attention la given to every account. Smafl accounts are welcomed. Âccounts may be opened and operated by mail. Âccounte may be opened ln the namea of two or more perlons; w!thdrawals te be made by any one'o! them or by the aurvivor. W E a client instructs.us to perform any duty~ requiring the services of a solicitor, it is our Wpractice, to retain for the legal work, involved any solicitor he may select. Those whom the CompanyU serves thus have the advantage both of advice from their own solicitors, and of the Company's skill in the ~management of property.B Ca Caital Paid-up, ïMi4td4 Reserve. $ 1,500,000. $ 1,500,000. 18-22 KiNG STRET EAsT, TORONTO. OUR ADVERTaiSNG P011CY Wo wlil net, knowlnglY or Intentlonally, Insert advrtl»IsOOftb from other than perfectly rellable flrms or business mon. If sub- scribers, find any of them to bo othrwlse, we wIIl emteemi It a favour If they Wlli ge adviao us, givlng full particulars. Advertising Manage, Camadian Coua14er 71 doilà. AMM16. - IÏ9MONEY AND MAGNATE59 A Canaclîan Bank in Venezuela A NN\"OUNCEMENT is made that the Royal Bank of Canada will branch in Caracas, Venezuela, during September, and will add other branches la that country before the year is out. Premnisel already been secured at the capital. This is in lune with the PalicY panding the operations in Central and South America. Venezuela iS northern coast of South America, adjoining Colombia on the east and Guiana on the west. The Royal Bank and Bank of Nova Scotia already have aumerous br ln the West Indies, while the Bank of Commerce and Bank of Montrea branches In Mexico. The extension af the branch system of the Royal Bank of Canada to take in Venezuela brings the number of countries in which the Ca chartered banks have offices to eighteen. The lis't follaws: Canada foundland, Great Britain, France, United States, Mexico, Cuba, Jamnale badoes, Bermuda, Porto Rico, Bahamas, Trinidad, Grenada, DûminIcý public (Island of Halti), British Honduras (Central America), British (South America), and Venezuela (South America). Canada Taking Trade Fromn United States 0 FFL'CIAL RETURNS show that the Canadian flour mills are taki Trinidad flour trade away from the United States. Revised figur our 1915 sales as 203,759 barrels, against 202,930 in 1914, and 131 1913. Meanwhile the imports fram the U. S. last year were only 43,7 rels, against 71,347 in 1914 -and 128,464 la 1913. The expart trade Canadian milîs is becoming a greater factor year by year. Russian Exchange and German Marks US8IAN roubles were quoted at 331/4 on the day o! this writiilg, Ris a new high record in a long time. Par is 51.2 cents, but Wý conditions brought agraduai decline late in 1914 which culmillat' break ta 28 cents on December 3Oth, 1915, the 10w point. Inter yen1 Rumania la ýcited as the reason for the present rîse. It is signlfil holders of the 6%4% participation certificates of the $50,000,000 rau lateral Russian loan placed la New York recently have an \u003ePPO'rtU buy roubles at a profit at anything above 33 cents.* Lt is learned'that only a mmall quantity of the Russian internai 1 fered here by brokers have been sold la Canada. New York bo0us0 however, placed a large quantity la the UJ. S. German exchange bas been tumbling again la New York, and was down ta 70 13-16 cents for four marks, whdch makes a new 10w record tory. Par is 954, Ln the first five maaths after war broke out the r to 88Y2 and opened there la 1915, that being also the high of the ye December, after a graduai drap, the price had fallen ta 75IY4 and f2 followed by a further slump la March last ta 71%4. By May a raIly tO0 accurred, so that to-day,'s 10w is about 7 cents down fram the higlh 14 this year. The decline from normal is now approximately 265c, aga' ia sterling. Employees Are Offered Wlar Bonds A MNTREAL~ correspondent writes: The directars of the A~ Bridge Company have concluded arrangements so 'that efliPlO the conceru and its subsidiarles, the Montreal Mnumunitlon,,I Products, Ltd., may purchase Dominion war lan bonds of the fkrst 97%4, the original price ta the public, on the instalment plan. Tie subscrlbed for a large block o! the war boan last December when the w as made. Another example of the same practice 18 shown In the case of the~ Powder Company; The Du Pont'Powder Ca., a U. S. corporatian, ha5 ized the usual 11/2 % dlvidend and an extra dividend of 2314%/0, or .25 '/ \u003cpayable ta the extent o! 1914 la Angla-French bonds. This la the mec bursenient o! this nature whlch the company bas made. Money in Abundance TT 18 ýlearned that there has been no tlghteaing o! any accoulit ln t' jmark~et la t'he east, and that brokers are not experienclng aInY such as la usually noted at this perlod a! the year in securlag b0ans stock collateral. Bank deposits are lncr.eaàing rapldly . AcroasBte call money la holding around 2 ta 2%4 %, the range s0 far t1115 n\"n 2 ta 23/ %, compared wlth a high of 6 % a short tume ago. An Interesting Canadian Bond Offering NEW YORK curb mlnlng bouse Is off ering $100.000 o! 5 % Agold bonda o! the Parlsh o! Sainat Pierre Claver, Mailtreal. teet and principal are payable at the National City Banlk, 14E or at the Hibernian Banking Association, the trustee, Chicago. lbG a Roman Catholic one, and the issue is one approved by theA01 Montreai. In offering the bonds, the Issue houdb states. that they have the't the church back o! tqiem, whlclt is, of course, flot strictly correct, bowever, that under the laws of \u003cuebec~ the securities are secured ta lfin on the comMunlvY precedlne 4Lh flien of mnicipal an~d ae",
         "THE COURIER. Brewster and B3. C. (Concluded from page 6.) a.nd his honeety and integrity Lquestioned. He indulges In no Lie$ or e-xalted flights of fancy, kes a sober, busineselike view Problems of his province, and to find a praoticable solution. 'Peaker, he tacks the persuasive- )f hie opponent being inferior ni eloquence and knowledge of PsYchology. One gains the !im- )II, however, in lietening to hlm, le la a man thoroughly to bie trust- id that hie will do hie beet to carry s Pledges. Hie friends do nlot for hixu genjus, but they do dlaim I the ability and fidelity to dis- the duties of the great office eh lhe aspires with success. At it session of the legist-ature, hie 1 UDpOf his duîie-s as leader o\u003ef position, and proved hirnself an lit Who, though hie atways fought couild strike bard btowe. He di Presented to him a greait op- tY, but it has not been withouit iculties. Within the ranks of emal Party are to bie found many hunfger for the spoits of office esharpened by a long past. Ilere are who wo)uld enly bie too O Perpetuate the woret evils of Ieervative regime for their own The Liberal chances have nlot '1ightened by the type of candi- hi1ch jes leading t'heir forces in fthe ilidings. In certain cases, c-andidates were selected by itttended conventions, at a time iberai prospecte were sa gloomy ý1 could bie induced to take any il, the maitter, and candidates tOsen not always of the highest lIn the city of Victoria, for ex- diSsatiefaction with certain of er.al candidates lias calied forth ePendent Liberals, thus greatly ' the party's prospects at the There are men, not a few in Coluii who woutd have lad ta see Mr. Brewster exer- cise a littie of that au 'tocratic spirit for which \"Napoleon\" Bowser is sO famou.s. Such action would have allen- aîted a few professional politiclans, but it would have been welcomed by the great body of etectors who have feit theniselves de.prived of any voice in the selection of a candidate to repre- sent them. A tactical error Mr. Brew- ster has aiso committed in callîng in question the legality of the legisiation paFý7ed at the tact sitting of the tegie- lature. IL xnay bie true, as hie con- tends, that the session reatly had ex- Pired before the Urne when it Iength- ened its own life, but with so maany people inteusely and vitatly interested in the legislation passed ait that ses- sion, it woutd have been good potitics to let the maLter atone. But in such difftcuit tlimes, Mr. Brew,,sVer has, on the whote, ipiloted bis party in such a manner as to win confidence. H1e has much to offer which is fflpecially at- tractive to Canadians in the temper of mind in which they finýd themselves to-day. They are tired of polîticians with a past, and put integrity and hion- esty 0f purpose very high up in the tie of qualifications which they de- mnnd train their leaders. Canadians every-where witl follow the next eleotion in British Columbia with the keenest of interest. WiIt the Hon. W. J. Bowser, with his new found zeat for reform, be able to make the electors of British Coltumbia be- lieve that hie repreclents the party of progrees or wilt they, remembering those dark chapters in the history of the province with which hie naine has been so intimately assoeiated, prefer to find in the Liberat leader a man whose past neede no forgivenees, those etements of clear-dut honesty and devotion to public welfare, which they are, above aIl, seeking in the man to whom they wilt trus-.t the central of the destinies of the province for the next four years? Btlind Man's Eyes (Contlnued from page 9.) CHAPTER VI. he Hand in the Aisie. IDau whoee interest in the Lnger In Section Three of tast sleeper was most and underetandable and, most opeuty acute, was rConnery. Connery hail Lough the fPuIlmans several ,I1.lfg the inorning--4rst lu Of the dawn before the dim- ýs In the cars had bleu ex- 1again later, when the '~had ben getting up; and ýme after ait. the paeeengere their berths except Darne, uearty ait the berthe had ,ade and the bedd.ing packed hind the panels overhead. el hie Paseed, Connery had hand which hun-g out; Into frOmn between the curtaine; OulIy definite thought that hlmn was. that Dorne wae a LPer. ail the paseengers had now ýd. Connery, therefore. at lui the' dîner, breakfasted \"~Id af ter finishing, went for- lee what messages ýhad beeon as9 to the retleving enow- kOthlng definite yet had been .lhe s11ow ahead of theni was ad as this where they were 'nd ii; would bie many hours [P ould geL to themi. Con- ,ed ba-cI tbrough the train. 110w muet bie up, and might 'l the conductor. Untess ePed himn, however, Connery tenld to speak to Darne. The l'ad learned in his many lervice that uothlng le more le t) the sort of people for irare held than 'officions- 'erY entercd the tast steeper, telOn the dial o! poin 1ters ýflniIcating witb the push- 1 the different berths, tell P '411ieh section le calling ~Iim, and hie saw that while ail the other arrows were pointing upiward. the arrow marked \"3\" wae pointing dowu. Darne was up, then-f or thie was the arrow denoting hie berth-or ai; teast was awake and had recently rung hie bell. Connery looked in upon the porter, who was cleaning up the washroom. \"Section Three's getting up?\" hie a.'ked. \"No, Mistah Connery-not yet,\" the porter answered. '\"What did he ring for?\"! Connery thought Darne might have asked for him. \"Hie dldn't ring. Nie ain't moved or stirred this morning.\" \"He muet have rung.\" Connery look- ed to the diat, and the porter came oui; of the washroom and too.ked ait It also. \"Fo' the lan's sake. \u003e didn't hear no ring, Mietah Connery. It mue' have ben when I was out on the plat- formn.\" \"When was that?\" \"Jus' now. There ain't been no- body but hlm in the car for fifteer minutes, and 1 done turn the pointers ail up when the tas' passenger went to the diner. It can't bie longer than a few minutes, MistaI' Connery.\"1 \"'Answer liL, then,\" Connery direct- ed. As the, negro etarted to obey, Con- nery followed hlm Into the open car. lie could see over the negro's s houl- der the hand stieking out\u003e luto the i alele, and thls time, at sight of It, Connery etarted vioteutly. If Dorne had rung, hie musit have moei a man wbo le awake does net lt his hand bang out into the aiste. Yet the hanci had not moved. Nothing was changed about IL since Connery had seen IL before. The long, sensitive fingers, fellInl precisely the samne position as before, stlffly separated a little one troin another; they had not changed- their position ait ail, \"Wait!\", Canery selzed the porter by the arm. *1l1I1 answer it myseif.\"1 New HOTEL *TUt-LLER Detroit, Michigan Contre of bWnon on Grand OrcuaPark. Toke Woodward car, geloai aAdam Au. ABSOLUTELY FIREPROOF 200 Rooms, Private Bath. $1.50 %qnle, $230 Up Double 200 \" \" 2.00 \" 3.00 \" 100 U 2 50 - 4.00 \" 100. 3.00Ota 5.00\"* 4.50 \" Total 600 Outirlde Roomn A AIl A l\u003eolulely Quiet Two Fon-Aenta New Unique Calles end Sample Roome Cabaret Excellent Patriotic Subscriptions The Courier le a good record of the Great War. Many people are Ifiling it. The thing to do is to file it now. Be sure you have your copy re.gularly-direct, or through a newsdealer. Many people are sending the.ir Couriers ta the boys a; the front. The Courier le a good \"letter frain home.\" Send more Courierm and sttîl more. The Courier will bie sent to soidier boys without addiýtional postal charges, if friende will cdaimi that privilege when subscribing for them. CANADIAN COURIER 181 SIMCOE ST., TORONTO, ONT. Begin to Malke Money when you are young. Start habits of thrift that wîll make you ricI' later on. Yeu cannot begin too salon to make money. BOYS can mnale money selling Canadian Courier. I makre the ýway easy with Instructions and outfit. Write me to-day. CIRCULATION MANAGER, CANADIAN COURIER, TORONTO. ow'ser, I 'j",
         "24 THE COURIER. Brazilian Traction, Light \u0026Power Company, Limited (Incorporated under the Laws of Canada) THIRD ANNUAL REPORT 0F THE BOARD 0F DIRECTORS TO THE SHAREHOLDERS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 3lst DECEMBER, 1915, To the Shareholders: The Board of Directorsbeg to submittheir Third Annual Report, together w'ith the Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account of the Company for the year ended 3lst December, 1915, and a report by the Président, Mr. Alexander Mackenzie, on. the enterprises in Brazil. The annual accounts of the Subsidiary Companies for the samne period are also attached. IWhile the combhined earnings of the Companies in Brazilian currency have fully realized the ex- pectation of the Board, being considerably greater than those of previous years, the resuit is not so satisfactory when such earnings are converted into Canadian currency. For some years prier to the outbreak of the European war, the value of the milreis for siglit bis on London was approximately 16 pence. iDuring the latter part of 1914, however, the aveiage value fell to approximately 13 pence, and in 1915 it .-fiowed a further depreciation 'to an average of approximate- ýly 121/ pence. Converting the earnings during 1915 at tlic average rates prevailing prior 'to the war, the net revenue iu Canadian eurrency, as shown by the attached aceounits, would be increased by over $3,000,000. The revenue of the Company in Canadian curren ey resulting from tlic year's operation was as fol- iows: Revenue from Seeurilties owned and under contracts witli Subsidiary Companies ......... 5,339,192.76 Interest on Advanees to Subsidiary Companies.......... ...... ......... ........... 273,683.41 $5,612,876.17 General and 'legal expenses, administration eharges and interest on loans ............... 218,074.43 Suirplus available for Dividends ...................... ........ ........ ......... $5,394,801.74 Dividends Nos. 8, 9, 10 and 11 at 11/2% each on Preference ShaTes ........ $ 600.000.00 Dividends Nos. 10 and il at 11½%7 cadi, and Nos. 12 and 13 at 11 of 1% ecd on Ordinary Shares......................... ...... ...... ... 4,249,380.00 _________-4,849,380.00 Surplus carried forward in profit and loss.................. ...... ..... .... $ 545,421.74 Dýuring tflifrst haif of 1915, dividends on the ordinary shares at the rate of 11/2%7 cach were paid on lst Mareh and lst June, respectively. As, howe ver, contrary to expectations .entertaincd carlier in the ycar, thc exehange value of tic milreis continued to fabi, the Board decided to 'lmirt the dividends payable on lst September and 1sf December to 1/2 of 1% cadi, making a total dividend of 4% for tic ycar. SAithougli rigid economies have been effected, the cost of operation and maintenance lias been ad- vcrscly infiucnccd by the rise in fie price of maferials, and by the enormous advancc in occan freiglits. This advancc hias particularly affected the earnings of -the gas business, as owing to the requisition by thec British Government of some of the steamers employed in the Oompany's service for carrying coal, lt became neccssary to charter other steamers at rates greatby exceeding those whieh woubd have been payable under normal conditions. If is therefore remarkable fliat, notwithstanding '.lie adverse circum- stances with which the Company lias hadto eontend, tfhe resuif s for flic year have been so satisfacýtory, and it is evident fiat witi a return to normal conditions, the revenue of the Company should be not only equal to that obtaincd prier to the war, but should show a consideraible and steady increase. Con- ditions generally in Brazil are showing distinct signs of imiirovemcnt. The Board are plcascd to report that .ail the coff ce purehased for exehan ge purpo-oes during the ycar 1914 and at tic bcginning of the ycar 1915, has been disposcd of, and at prices whieh realized a sum in exeess of tiat which it is est-imated would have been received had flhc usual method of making remittances been followed.' Du.ring flic year further shares have been acquired I the capital of, -the Companhia Teleplioniea do Estado de Sao Paulo and in that of the Companhia Rede Tebephonica Bragantina, and with those subse- qiien-tly purciased, this Company, now liolds 95% of the share capital of each Company. This Com'pany hias also made advanccs for the -purpose of carrying ont nccssary improvements and extensions to the telephone systems, w'hich, W'hen comipleted should result in material increases in the revenue. The Board are gbad f0 state that the relations of ail thc Snb)sidiary Companies Wi'th the Federal, State and Municipal authorities continue to be of 'the mosf cordial ciaracter. The President of the Company, Mr. Alexander Mackenzie, lias spent the iasf sixteen montlis in Brazil i connection with the affairs of fie Companies. - He lias reentby rcturned, and his report on the opera- tions of 'these enterprises, which ias been adopted Iby the Board, is appendcd. A vaquable addition to flie Board has been made by the cleef ion of MT. R. C. Brown as a Director. Mr. Brown was Manager of The Sao Paulo Tramway, Liglit and Power Comnpany, Lixnited, during the 1¶rst two years after its organization, and lias had a wide experience in similar undertakings, and lie lias rccently visifcd Brazil and mnade a tborough examination of the Conipany's properties. The Boardl regret ta have te annonnce the ioss of one of their esteemed -mmbrsbv flic deati of Sir William Van Horne, in September, 1915. Sir William Van Horne was a dlrector of The Rio de Janciro Tramway, Liglif and PowerCompany, Limited, froin ifs inception, and was clccted to'the Board of the Brazilian, Traction, Liglif and Powcr Company, Limitedl at the time of ifs formation. The Board of the. Rio de Janeiro Tramway, Liglif and Power Companyr, Ljimiîted, 'have also suffcred a further boss, owing t0 the death in September, 1915, of tixeir valued- coblc'aguc, Monsieur Jean Javal], oýf Paris, France. The Board desire 'to express their appreciafion of the services rendlered Jby. the-se Pirectors. 'The Board take greaf pleasure i recordlino their ar-oreeiation of thie -efficient services rendered. by Mr. P. A. Hluntress, tlic Vice-President of Tic 'Rio de Janeiro Tramway, tiglit and Power Companv, Limitcd, The'Sao Paulo Tramway, Liiglit and Power Company, Limi'ted, and the Sao' Paulo Ebectrie Company, Limitcd, and the other officials of thie Companies in Brazil. 13y ordler of the Board. J. M. SMITH, Secrefary. Tornto(, Canada, Auiguat ara, 1916. He dismissed the negro aiid W until lie had gone. Hie looked 1 and assured himÎself that the cal cept for himself and the 'nan behi-nd the curtains of Section ~ was empty. He slowed, as lie proached fixe liand. Hie hlted stood a moment beside the bertb,, self almost breathless as lie lit for the sound of breathing wtht heard nothing, though he bexit c to the curtain. Yet lie Stil ie-sit and retrc ati n g a littie and -wal briskly as thougi lie were ae passing up the aisie, lie bruslied against tlie land and looked bai claiming an apology for bis car, ness. The liand fell back heavilY, il\" and resumed its former posttof liung as White and lifeless as b No response to tlie apology caie behind tlie curtains; tlie Mani 1, herth had nlot roîîsed. Connery ed back to tlic curtains and t0I the hand witli lis fingers. It W!18 Hie seized tlie hand and feif 1 over; then, gasping, lie parted curtains and looked into the lie stared; lis breati wlitStled bis shoulders jerken, and' le back, instinctively pressing lits clenclied liands agatnst lis ci the poclief whicli lield Pres Jarvis' order. The manxitn tlie berth was lyl lis riglif side facing tlie alsie left side of bis face was tliu$ cd; and if liad been crusbed i viol ent blow from 'somle - weapon whicli, too blunt f0 c\" skin and brîng blood, liad[ frac the cheelibone and bludgeOlle temple. Tlie proof of mlird violence was so plain fliaf tie ductor, as lie saw the face i wlite wtth liorror. He looked up and down the~ ai assure litmself fliat neo one li8d ed the car durtng bis exalil then lie carefully drew tlie cl' fogether again, and hurrte(I fi forward end of tlie car wliere leff fthe porter. \"lLock flie rear door of flihe cotnmanded. \"'Then comne al He gave the negro thie l\u003cey5 htmself waited to prevexif a\"' from. enfcring the car af bis Looktng flirougli the glas\" 0 door, lie saw the Young mail standing in flic vestibule of tb next alicad. Connery liesitafcd; lie opencd flic door and bec Eaton f0 him. 'Wlll you go forward, pieas 1E requesfed, \"and sec If fliere doct or-\" \"«You mean fthe man Wil In my car?\" Eafon inquired. \"1Tlat's tlie one.'*\" E TON sfarfd off WtblOlt E any questions . Thie Porter.' locked the rear dccx' Of tb retuned 'and gave Connery a keys. Connery sf111 waifed., Eaton retumxied witli th r maxi, «D. S.\" He jef flicin tal cd flic door behind fleic\". -Yoii are a drActer?\" quesftoned flic red-haircd na\"' 111 arn a surgeon-, 33s.'$ \"Thaf's wliaf's wanfcd. \"My name Is Sinclair. 1 D Sinclair, of.Chlcago. \" Connery nodded. \"I av Yeu.,, Mie furneëd flen f0eter yen know wlierc fbe ge~ntl who belongs f0 Mr týrne Pa Avery, I belleve is niaine 1 \"Hie Is in flic ,rvtll Mafton answered.. Iln 1Wtll yon go and' get car-door le locked. Thie Porter you In and ouf. oooméftbhflg lias liappencd liere--to i Mr. Avery, If you can, ihfl tngMm. Dorne's dauglbter, ' Maton noddedudetnil followed flic porter, wlio, t, keys again from flic co\" c bim onf flic rcar door Of tvue reclosed fthc door b-hirid ll'e wenf on tnt o flic Observiit\u003c\u003e\" fic passed flic club ecoliPaI his car,-lie senscd an aflilOs dlsqulef w'liehl gave lhiaiop lng thaf sorne of fliese P M' know already fliat thcre '",
         "TH1E COURIER. Try These koyal Acadia\" mgfblar Recipes- ;o get the best resuits ROYAL ACADIA r. 1OYAL ACADIA Cream Fudge\" ree cups Royal Acadia e One cup water, one rIut (grated). Boit and water until it eremiove from fire, cocoanut, and beat just thick enough to on plates. YAL Sultana Cake\" e and onç-half pounds Acadia Granulated , three-quarters pound e One and three-quar- rnnds flour, five eggs, up ilk, one pound S, two teaspoons cream \u003eOne teaspoon soda, ~e of lemon. ACADIA SUGAR IEFINING CO. 'AX - CANADA BOOK ON D OC DISEASES AND HOW TO FEED IL H CLAY GLOVER, V.S. 11 W i s Sist et, X.Y.. ua8A. l VICTORIAk MONTREAL. resIdential Coitege. frmen stuc:cjs of Lt NIVFRSmT. Ier.d to degree ln rate ini the main fromn Mnen. but under identi- tions; and te degrees \u003es»ectus and Informa. r te the Warden. *thing wrong fartlier forward; but this was explained when lie heard some one say that the door of the car aie'ad 'was locked. Another asked ,Eaton how lie had got through; lie put the questioner off and went on into the observation-room. Nio suspicion of anything liaving occurred liad as yet penetrated there. \"How long you've been!\" Harriet Dorne remarked as he came near. \"And hoxv is it about the roof promenade?\" \"Why, ail right, I guess, MÇiss Dorne -after a littie.\" Controlling himself to an appearance of casualness, lie turned then to Avery: \"By the way, can 1 see you a moment?\" W ITHOIT alarming Harriet Dorne, lie got Avery away and out of the car. A few passengers now were collected upon the platforms be- tween this car and the next, who questioned and complained as Eaton, pushing by them with Avery, was ad- mitted by the negro, who refused the others admittance. \"Is it something wrong with Mr. Dorne?\" Donald Avery demanded as Eaton drew back to let Avery pre- cede him into the open part of the car. \"Sa the conductor says.\" Avery hurried forward toward the berth where Connery was standing beside the surgeon. Connery tur.ned toward him. \"I sent for you. sir, because ynu are the companion of the man wlio had this berth.\" Avery pushed past hlm, and leaped forward as lie looked past the surgeon. \"Wliat lias happened to Mr. Borne ?\" \"You see him as we found him, sir.\" Conniery stared down nervously be- side liim. Avery leaned inside the curtains and recoiled. \"'He's dead!\" \"The doctor liasn't made bis ex- amination yet: but tliere seems no doubt he's dead.\" Connery was very pale but controlled. \"He's been murdered!\" \"It looks so, Mr. Avery. Yes, if he's. dead, lie's certainly been murdered,\" Connery agreed. \"«This Is, Doctor Douglas Sinclair, a Chicago surgeon. I called hlm just now to make an ex- amination; but since .Mr. Borne seems to have been dead for some time, I waited for you before xnoving tlie body. You can tell,\"--4Connery avoid- ed mention of President Jarvis' name, -\"tell any -one who asks you, Mr. Avery, that you saw him just as lie was found.\"1 H1e looked down again at the form in the berth, and- Avery's gaze follow- ed bis; then, abruptiy, it turned away. Avery stood clinging to the curtain, bis eyes darting from one to anotlier of the three men. \"As he was found? When?\" he de- manded. \"Who found him that way? When? How ?\" \"I found him. so,» Connery answer- ed. Avery said ýnothing more. \"Will you start your examination now, Dr. Sinclair,\" Connery suggest- ed. 'iNo--fI'lI ask yoiu to, wait a minute.\" Noises were coming to them from, the platforms at both ends of the car, and the doors were being tried and pounded on, as passengers attempted to pass tlirough. Connery went to the réar, where the negro had been post- ed; then, repassirg tliem, he went to the other end of the car. The noises ceased. \"The Pullman conductor is forward, and the brakeman is back there now,\" he said, as he turned to tliern.. \"You will flot be Interrupted, Dr. Sinclair.\" \"Whal#t explanation did you give them?\" Eaton asked. ýWliy?\" Connery returned. \"T was thinlking of Miss Donne.\" \"I told them nothing wblch could disturb ber.\"1 Connery, as he'spoke, pulled back the curtains, entlrely ex- posing the berth. The surgeon, befor 'e examunlng the man in the berth more closely, lifted, tlie shades from- the window., Everythlng a9bOut the ber'th -was lni place, undisturbed; except ~for the mark 'of the savage blow The, National Directory of Schools and Colleges The following is a Iist of some of the Leading Canadian Schools ands Colleges which the Canadian Courier recommends as desirable institutions for the education of Canadian children. Most of themn have years of reputation behind them. BOYS' 8CHOOLS AND COLLEGES. Blshops College School, Lennoxvlle, P.Q. Lower Canada College, Montreal. Ridley College, St. Catharines, Ont St. Andrew's Coilege, Toronto. St. Michael's College, Toronto. Stanstead Wesleyan College, Stan- stead, Que. Trlnlty College School, Port Hope, Ont. BUSIN--SS SCHOOLS. Shaw's Lzslness Schools, Toronto. CORRESPONDENCE SOHOOLS. Shaw's Correspondence Schoolg, To. ronto. GIRLS' SOHOOLS AND COLLEGES. EiB1 1p Dethune Colloge, O-shawa, Ont. Loretto Abbey College and Academy. Toronto. Moulton College, Toronto. Mount Ailison Ladies' ýCollege and University, Sackvl1lle, N.B. St. Margaret'a Coilege, Toronto. Stanstead Wesleyan College, Stan. stead, Que. UNIVERSITI ES. Queen's UJnlversity, Kingston, ont. EXAMINATIONS IN MUSIC. The Assoclated Board of the Royal Academy of Music and Royal College of Music, for Examinations in Music in the British Empire. Resident Sec. retary's Office, 777 Shuter Street, Montreal. A SOHOL. F IDALS N A ANDA SCOLOR GIROLSgatb try a welies th culura nflueces f roto Ovhriht I onug Insrum iona. Acadmiecoures rom repraty Lrge toan J iel s ExrclleStation . ce' CertflctesandFlrt Tar nivrs4yMse, Drt BRatrE MADOmeALD. MAciene gynalmlrg simigpol a lnd a Bioem t onppla io. unse O T RODE\"COLLEGE R-PN SPEBR12H 96 FR A NA R SCIT R . F. A I... A WL OL, FOR. PRICIPL . ,ax .O)a 1lar ~I al ic Lr, nc t",
         "THIE COUJRIER. 1I know it's Good, ln fact Itvs the Boit Ginger Aie 1\" T rink it suggests a repetition of the experience ' SPECIAIL 'PALE DRY S The wholesome, sparkling beverage for al ' occasions-for ail places. S Have a case at home-it!s not expensive, and S it's good for every member of the fainily. Itfs L3 fine for the Bridge Table. * V our dealer or grocer will deliver, or phone e. Main 4203. *uy O. K. Brandes Special Pale DryLeo o LexnonaSon Gingr tzOrangeade Ginger Beer O'KEEFE'S, Toronto 613 THIE INDEPENDENT ORDER 0F FORESTERS FURNISHES A COMPLETE SYSTEM 0F INSURANCE Poliles lssued by the Society are fer the protection of your faniily, ani cannot be bought, uold,- or pledged. Boeofta are payable to the Beiieficlary ln case of death, or to the. member in ee of hi, total dlaability, or to the member on attalning seventy years of a\"o. Pollelostissed from $50 to $5,OO. TOTAL BENEFITS PAID, 49 MILLION DOLLARS. For further information and literature apply to FRED J. DARCH, S. Temple Bulinge, IL Q. STEVENSON, S.CiR. TORONTO. i ITZ CARLTON HOTEL SHRBRUfOOKE 4T. WEST, MONTREAL TARIF Singl Uooe ad Bath from $3.00 up. Double Roomn and Bath f roea 5.00 up. Table D'Hete and a 1£, carte 3SeaI at Moderato Prol\" NADA'S FINEST MOpTEL FRANK~ 8. Q10IOK. NgafaaW. on the side of the man's head, there was no evidence of anything unusual. The mans clothes were carefully and r.eatly bung on the hooks or în the little hamrnock; bis glasses were in thoir case~ bes1iý tho pillow; hiC watch and purse were under the pl- ]ew; the window at bis feet was stili raised a crack to let in freali air while lie slept. Save for the marks upon the head, the man miglit yet lie sleep- ing. -Il was seif-evident that, whnt- ever had been the motives of the at- tack, whatever had been the motives of the attack, robbery was flot one; whoever liad struck had done no more than reach in and deliver bis murderous blow; then lie bad gone on. Connery shut the window. As the surgeoni carefully and de- liberately pulled back the lied- clothing and exposed the body of the man clothed in pajamas, the others watched hini. Sinclair made first an examînaltion of the head; com- pleting this, lie unbuttoned the pajamas upon the chest, loosened theni and prepared te malte examina- tion of the body. \"'How long bas lie been dead?\" Con- nary asked. \"He is not dead yet.\"1 \"You niean he is still dying?\" \"I did flot say se.\"1 \"Yeu mean lie is alive, then?\" \"Life is still present,\" Sinclair answered guardedly. '\"Wliether lie will lîve or ever regain conscousness, ls anether question. \"One you can't answer?\" \"The blow, as you can see,\"-Sin- clair touclied the mian's face with his Of t finger tips,-\"feIl mostly on the cheek and temple. The clieekbone is fractured. He is ln a complete state of coenra; and there rnay lie'some fracture of the skull. O! course, there is sorne concussion of the brain.\" Any inference te be drawn from this as to the seriousnes of the in- juries was plainly beyond Connery. \"How long ago was lie struck\" he asked. \"Seme hours.\" \"You can't tell more than that?\" \"Longer ago 'than five heurs, certainly ?\" \"«Since four o'clock then, rather titan before.\" \"1SInce midnight, certainly; and longer ago than five o'clock tliîs mornlng.\" \"Could lie have revived haif an hour ago--say withln the hour-enougli te have pressed the button and rung the bell froni bis berth?\" S 3JNOLAI-R straigxtened and gazed at the conductor curiously. \"No, certainly net,\" lie replied. \"That la completely Impossible. Why did you asit?\" Connery avolded answer. The doctor glanced down quickly at the form of the man ln the bertli; then again lie confronted Connery. \"Why did you ask that?\" lie perslst- ed. \"Dld the bell froni this berth ring recenrtly?\" Connery shook his he-ad, flot In negation of the question, but in re- fusaI te answer then. But Avery pusbed forward. \"What la tliat? What's that?\" lie demanded. IWill yeu go on with your examina- tion, Doctor?\" Connery urged. \"lYou said the bell froni thia berth rang recently!\" Avery accusecl Con- nery. .I dld flot say that; lie asked It,\"1 Ille conductor evaded. \"But la It truie?\" \"The pointer ln the washroom, in- dicatîng a sIgn'aI from týhis bertli, was turned down a minute ago,\" Connery had te reply. \"A few moments earler, all pointera had been set ln the position lndicating ne call.\" \",What!\" Avery cried. \"What was that?\" Connery repeated the gtatement. '1.'at was lie!ore you found the body?\"f IlTbat was wby 1 went te the berth -y\"8,\" Connery replled; \"that was before 1 found the body.\" \"Then you mean yen dld not find the body,\" Avery cbarged. \"Set one, passlng through this car a mln. THE TUXEDO AComiortable and Exclusive Modern Home. Table and Ser- vice in Keeping. Seven-cour5e Evening Dinner. Famille. Ooming to Toronto Should Write For Roeerationa The Tuxqdo, 504 Sherbourne St THE TUSCO f orhl Aneia.and EuroP8 (Private Hotel\u003e Moderato rates. ilot an 1 old water in every roOfl U.S. EIDMONDSON. Prop., shopping die tro.235 Jarvia Street, Toronto, On'l KING EDWARD MOTEL Toronto, Canada. -Fireproof- Acen _ 0122detiOu for 750 guesta. $1.50 IM Âmedacen and European Plans. MOTEL KRAUSMANN GRILL EUROPEAN PLAN Roome wlth bath $1.00 par day UP. W. KRAUSMANN, Proprietor. Plat'@ Sear on draught. ORCHESTfli DUNHILL'S INNER TUBE BRUYERE DEAD ROOT PIPES A revelation to any who have flot already experienced theit charm. See themn at THE DUNHILL SHO? HARGRAFT BUILDING Scott and Coîborne Sts., Toronlto L \" Famous for its Delicate FI avor\" WHITI ALE must be tast -d to be ap ciated. -It contains nl but the fineat barley gra maltedby us under hyg' conditions, with chii 6/8 hops. It gratifies--and is atM the sanme. \u003cTRY FF. At Delrnis and HotIl Rrov.rF bottliat outi DOMINION BREWERY C UitedI, TORtONTO",
         "THE COURIER. )before you, must have found ry attended without replying. evidently that man dared flot t and could flot wait longer Whether Mr.----Mr. Darne, was ladl; so he rang the bell! \" t we keep Dr. Sinclair any romn the examination, sir?\" 110w seized Avery's arm in \"The flrst thing for us, ta Whether Mr. Darne iýs dying. ry checked himself; lie had appeal. Baton, standing watchful, observed that eagerness ta accuse now had Placed by anather interest lIý cOnductor's words had me- Whetber the man in the as to live or die-evidently mnomentousîy to affect Don- Y (me way or the ather. )urse, by all means proceed Dur examination, ]3actor,\" rected. riclair bent aver the body, aned over also; Baton gazed nd Connery-a littie paler Ore and with lips tightly set. CHiAPTER VIL. t This Basil Santoine?\" urgean, having flnished loas- Sthe pajamas, pulled open carefully memoved the jacket v'ing the upper part of the ie, mnanin the berth exposed. Ir 'Connery turned to, Avery. lave na objection tai my tak- Of the articles in the berth ?\" ermed to appose; then, appar- recagnized that this waýs, an Part off the canductom's duty. .ail,\" lie replied. ' gathered up the clothing, el, the watch and purse, and 1onl the seat across the aisle. OWvn, then, opposite them, lie 1 themn and, taking every- ni the pockets off the clothes, J. to catalogue them before In the coat lie found only the which he noted without \u0026its co~ntents, and in the a Pocket-knif e and buncli off e 'Oùnted over the gold and Sin the purse and entered 'fUpon bis list. :1Wabout what lie had witb lasely. That is correct. Is znîssing,\" Avery answered. Inductor apened the watch. 8t,11 la missing.\" Jiodded. \"Yes; it always- t 'was missing yestemday.\" Y' 1O\u003c\u003eke\u003c Up at him, as lightly Puzzled'by the man- e~ rePly; then, havlng ftnish- It, 11(e rejoined the surgeon. r was stilI bending over the rsO. With Elaton's hel, tie ýd the body upon its bacli in look at its rigl4t side, w'hIch Id been hidden. It had been Shealthy body; Sinclair ta age at fifty. As a boy, the ht have been an athlete,-a lick-runner or oarsman,- ad kePt himself in condition r3hidle age. There was noa buI'ise upon the body, except he- rilght side and just below there now showed a scar 111\u003c51 and a haîf long and of er8ce1t shape. It was evi- 'urglcal scar and had, com- sc~rutinized this carefully kooked up to Avery. \"Rie atdon recentýy 9\" G'e years aga.\" 13On1 oiperatian an the gail- rOd y Kuno Garrt?\" [ed Sinclair more closely 'ted bis examination; the hdglanced qulckly at the bePlllaw and seemed about Ân very again; but instead pb ajama jacket over the drwup the sheet and COnnery touched the sur- New Prices, August lst, 1916 The following prices for Ford cars will be effective on and after August lst, 1916 Chassis . Runabout. Touring Car Coupelel Town Ci Sedan e e 0 $45000 * e * e * e * e 0 e e 0 47500 49500 69500 78000 89000 f.ob. Ford, Ontario These prices are positively guaranteed against any reduction before August lst, 1917, but there iS no0 guarantee against an advance in price at any time. Ford Motor Company of Canada Limiteci Ford, Ontario Assembly and Service Branches at St. John, N.B.; Montreal, Que.; Toronto, Ont.; London, Ont.; Winnipeg, Man.; Saskatoon, Sask.; Cýa1gary, Alta.; and Vancouver, B.C. \"j owin to its being conivenient hany ,easy to carry, easy to cut, N I 'and always ln prime condition Mca for smoking. Allsportsmen are 'ULD smokers and the most critizal among them smoke Maiter-Mason. *IT»s 0GOToACc Try it yourself anùdyouiwillfind it Equal by test to the. very beat Much botter than ail the. rest. to, Say MASTER-M-ASON to your dealer-he knows. pRICE: 15 CT\u0026e. THE ROCK CITY TOBACCO GO-, L.ITEMI",
         "r and al Earthen Wares cleaned Quickly Efficiently Hygienically' *~~~~~1 C, le"
      ],
